# Articles | Modal

Run gpt-oss, OpenAI's new open weights model. [Run
now](/docs/examples/gpt_oss_inference)

[ ![Modal logo](/_app/immutable/assets/logo.lottie.CgmMXf1s.png)](/)

Use Cases

[Playground](/playground)[Pricing](/pricing)[Customers](/customers)[Blog](/blog)[Docs](/docs)[Company](/company)

[Log In](/login?next=%2Fapps) [ Sign Up ](/signup?next=%2Fapps)

## Modal Articles

All Posts

Serverless

GPUs

Frameworks and Tools

LLMs

Image and Video Models

Audio Models

AI Agents

Data Infrastructure

Embedding Models

[August 6, 2025 The Top Open-Source Text to Speech (TTS) Models This article
explores the top open-source TTS models, based on Hugging Face’s trending
models and insights from our developer community.](/blog/open-source-
tts)[August 5, 2025 The Top Open Source Speech-to-Text (STT) Models in 2025
Exploring the top open-source STT models based on Hugging Face's trending
models and the Open ASR Leaderboard.](/blog/open-source-stt)[July 29, 2025
Whisper vs Deepgram Compare the most popular open-source ASR model with the
most popular proprietary ASR platform.](/blog/whisper-vs-deepgram)[July 17,
2025 Top AI Code Sandbox Products in 2025 Compare the top AI code sandbox
products available in 2025, focusing on five vendors: Modal, E2B, Together,
Fly, and Daytona.](/blog/top-code-agent-sandbox-products)[July 14, 2025 How
much does it cost to run NVIDIA B200 GPUs in 2025? Learn how much it will
costs to run B200s across major cloud
providers](/blog/nvidia-b200-pricing)[May 22, 2025 Azure Functions pricing:
Consumption vs. Flex Consumption Learn about Azure Functions pricing models -
comparing the original Consumption plan with the newer Flex Consumption plan,
including detailed pricing breakdowns and examples](/blog/azure-function-
pricing-guide)[May 16, 2025 How much is AWS Lambda? Learn how AWS Lambda
pricing works, including charges for compute time (per GB-second) and number
of requests, with examples and cost breakdowns.](/blog/aws-lambda-price-
article)[March 31, 2025 6 Best Code Embedding Models Compared: A Complete
Guide Compare the top code embedding models for semantic code search, code
completion, and repository analysis](/blog/6-best-code-embedding-models-
compared)[March 31, 2025 8 Top Open-Source OCR Models Compared: A Complete
Guide Compare the best open-source OCR models for document processing,
including traditional ML and LLM-based approaches](/blog/8-top-open-source-
ocr-models-compared)[March 18, 2025 5 Best GPUs for Machine Learning in 2025:
A Complete Guide Compare the top GPUs for machine learning workloads, from
traditional ML to large language models](/blog/5-best-gpus-for-machine-
learning-compared)[March 15, 2025 How much is an Nvidia H200? Learn about the
cost of Nvidia H200 GPUs, how they compare to H100s, and explore top GPU-on-
demand platforms for accessing this cutting-edge
hardware.](/blog/nvidia-h200-price-article)[March 12, 2025 5 Ways to Speed Up
Whisper Transcription Learn five proven strategies to accelerate Whisper
transcription using GPU acceleration, model optimization, and parallel
processing.](/blog/faster-transcription)[March 10, 2025 Best open-source LLMs
in 2025 Overview of the best open-source llms](/blog/best-open-source-
llms)[February 24, 2025 How to deploy LiveKit Agents on Modal Learn how to
deploy LiveKit agents on Modal, a serverless cloud platform that simplifies
running containerized workloads.](/blog/livekit-modal)[February 24, 2025 The
easiest way to run a Docker image in the cloud Have a Docker image? Run it in
the cloud with Modal.](/blog/run-docker-image)[January 31, 2025 How to run
DeepSeek-R1 Distilled Qwen-32B with vLLM on Modal Example code for running
DeepSeek-R1 Distilled Qwen-32B with vLLM on
Modal](/blog/how_to_run_deepseek_r1_distilled_vllm)[January 27, 2025 Best
frameworks for fine-tuning LLMs in 2025 Axolotl vs. Unsloth vs.
Torchtune](/blog/fine-tuning-llms)[January 27, 2025 A10 vs. A100 vs. H100 -
Which one should you choose? Discover the best GPU for your AI workload:
Compare A10, A100, and H100 performance, pricing, and use cases to make an
informed decision.](/blog/gpu-types)[January 27, 2025 Top embedding models on
the MTEB leaderboard Overview of the top ranking embedding models on the MTEB
leaderboard](/blog/mteb-leaderboard-article)[January 21, 2025 Flux.1-dev: Run
a top text-to-image model on Modal Example usage of the Flux.1-dev image
generation model](/blog/how-to-run-flux1-dev-on-modal)[January 21, 2025 How to
deploy Llama 3.1 70B Instruct on Modal Example code for Llama 3.1 70B Instruct
LLM](/blog/how-to-run-llama-3-1-70b-instruct-on-modal)[January 21, 2025 How to
run Llama 3.1 8B Instruct on Modal Example code for Llama 3.1 8B Instruct
LLM](/blog/how-to-run-llama-3-1-8b-instruct-on-modal)[January 21, 2025 How to
run Nomic Embed V1.5 on Modal Example code for running Nomic Embed
V1.5](/blog/how-to-run-nomic-embed-v1-5-on-modal)[January 21, 2025 How to
deploy Stable Diffusion 3.5 Large on Modal Example code for running Stable
Diffusion 3.5 Large Turbo](/blog/how-to-run-stable-diffusion-3-5-large-on-
modal)[January 21, 2025 How to run Stable Diffusion 3.5 Medium on Modal
Example code for running Stable Diffusion 3.5 Medium](/blog/how-to-run-stable-
diffusion-3-5-medium-on-modal)[January 21, 2025 How to run Stable Diffusion XL
on Modal Example code for running Stable Diffusion XL](/blog/how-to-run-
stable-diffusion-xl-on-modal)[January 21, 2025 How to deploy Whisper Large V3
on Modal Example code for Whisper Large V3 speech recognition
model](/blog/how-to-run-whisper-large-v3-on-modal)[January 21, 2025 How to run
WhisperX on Modal Example usage of the WhisperX transcription
model](/blog/how-to-run-whisperx-on-modal)[December 20, 2024 Fine-tuning a
FLUX.1-dev style LoRA How we fine-tuned FLUX.1-dev for style on the Heroicons
library.](/blog/fine-tuning-flux-style-lora)[November 26, 2024 Create a custom
video generator by fine-tuning a Mochi LoRA on Modal Customize Genmo's open
state-of-the-art video generation model Mochi 1 on Modal
infrastructure](/blog/fine-tuning-mochi-video)[November 2, 2024 Stable
Diffusion 3.5 vs. Flux Which text-to-image model is right for
you?](/blog/best-text-to-image-model-article)[October 31, 2024 How much is an
Nvidia A100? Learn about the cost of Nvidia A100 GPUs and explore top GPU-on-
demand platforms for accessing this powerful
hardware.](/blog/nvidia-a100-price-article)[October 30, 2024 Top embedding
models for RAG Learn how to select an embedding model for your RAG
system](/blog/embedding-models-article)[October 30, 2024 Top image
segmentation models Learn which models to use to segment out objects in images
and videos](/blog/image-segmentation-article)[October 30, 2024 Top open-source
text-to-video AI models Learn about the top open-source text-to-video AI
models](/blog/text-to-video-ai-article)[October 17, 2024 What is Flux Dev?
Learn about the most popular text-to-image diffusion model on the
market](/blog/flux-dev)[October 16, 2024 What is Flash Attention? Learn how to
speed up your model training and inference with Flash Attention](/blog/flash-
attention-article)[October 15, 2024 Glossary: LLM fine-tuning hyperparameters
Confused about what each hyperparameter means when you're doing LLM fine-
tuning? Our glossary will help.](/blog/fine-tuning-llms-hyperparameters-
glossary-article)[October 15, 2024 Fine-tuning vs. RAG: Which approach is
right for your use case? Learn about the differences between fine-tuning and
Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) for tailoring LLMs to your custom
datasets, and discover which approach best suits your specific
needs.](/blog/fine-tuning-vs-rag-article)[October 15, 2024 Build interactive
workflows using Kestra and Modal Learn how to create interactive workflows
that dynamically adapt to user inputs with Kestra’s open-source orchestration
platform and Modal’s serverless infrastructure.](/blog/modal-kestra-
article)[October 15, 2024 vLLM vs. TGI Learn how to speed up your model
training and inference with vLLM or TGI](/blog/vllm-vs-tgi-article)[September
27, 2024 Top 5 serverless GPU providers Learn all about top serverless GPU
providers](/blog/serverless-gpu-article)[September 25, 2024 AWS Lambda vs.
Google Cloud functions: a comprehensive comparison How do AWS Lambda and
Google Cloud Functions compare? This article provides a detailed comparison of
these two popular serverless execution environments.](/blog/aws-lambda-vs-
google-cloud-functions-article)[September 25, 2024 Dagster vs. Airflow: a
comprehensive comparison An in-depth look at the differences between Dagster
and Airflow for data orchestration](/blog/dagster-vs-airflow-
article)[September 25, 2024 Google Cloud Run functions pricing: understanding
costs and optimization A comprehensive guide to the pricing model for Google
Cloud Run functions, including differences between 1st and 2nd gen, CPU and
memory allocation, and key pricing metrics. Learn how to optimize your
serverless costs.](/blog/google-cloud-function-pricing-guide)[September 25,
2024 Google Cloud Run vs. Cloud Run Functions: understanding Google's
serverless offerings Explore the relationship between Google Cloud Run and
Cloud Run Functions, their key differences, and how to choose the right
serverless option for your needs.](/blog/google-cloud-run-vs-google-cloud-
function-article)[September 25, 2024 RabbitMQ vs. Kafka: choosing the right
messaging system Learn about the key differences between RabbitMQ and Apache
Kafka, their use cases, and how to choose the right messaging system for your
needs.](/blog/rabbitmq-vs-kafka-article)[September 25, 2024 Best practices for
serverless inference Learn about gotchas and best practices for serverless
inference](/blog/serverless-inference-article)[September 23, 2024 Open-source
AI agents A roundup of popular open-source AI agents like OpenHands (formerly
OpenDevin), SWE-agent, and Devika.](/blog/open-ai-agents)[September 18, 2024
How to run Llama 3.1 as an API Serve Meta's foundational Llama 3.1 models via
API](/blog/llama-3-1-api)[September 15, 2024 How to get GPUs with a Jupyter
notebook on Modal Learn how to launch a Jupyter notebook backed by Modal GPUs
with this step-by-step
guide.](/blog/how_to_launch_a_jupyter_notebook_on_modal_programmatically_article)[September
15, 2024 ChatTTS: Running an open source text-to-speech model Learn how to run
ChatTTS text-to-speech on Modal with this step-by-step
guide.](/blog/how_to_run_chattts_article)[September 15, 2024 How to deploy a
Gradio app Deploying a Gradio app on
Modal](/blog/how_to_run_gradio_on_modal_article)[September 15, 2024
Llama3-405B: How to run an extra large open source LLM on Modal Learn how to
run Llama3-405B on Modal with this step-by-step
guide.](/blog/how_to_run_llama_405b_article)[September 15, 2024 How to run
Ollama Learn how to run Ollama on Modal with this step-by-step
guide.](/blog/how_to_run_ollama_article)[September 15, 2024 How to run XTTS
Learn how to run XTTS text-to-speech with this step-by-step
guide.](/blog/how_to_run_xtts_article)[September 14, 2024 How to deploy code
in AWS Lambda: the easy way for beginners Deploying your first Lambda function
using AWS SAM](/blog/how-to-deploy-aws-lambda)[September 8, 2024 Fast, lazy
container loading in Modal.com Deep dive on Modal's optimizations for fast,
lazy container loading](/blog/jono-containers-talk)[September 4, 2024 Upload
files to S3 with AWS Lambda and AWS API Gateway in TypeScript: A Step-by-Step
Guide Learn how to create a serverless solution for uploading JPEG images to
Amazon S3 using AWS API Gateway and Lambda with TypeScript](/blog/aws-
lambda-s3-file)[September 4, 2024 Batch processing vs. stream processing by
example Understand the crucial differences between batch processing and stream
processing by example](/blog/batch_vs_stream)[September 1, 2024 How much VRAM
do I need for LLM model fine-tuning? Estimating VRAM requirements for large
language model fine-tuning](/blog/how-much-vram-need-fine-tuning)[September 1,
2024 How much VRAM do I need for LLM inference? Estimating VRAM requirements
for large language model inference](/blog/how-much-vram-need-inference)[August
23, 2024 A1111 vs ComfyUI Which Stable Diffusion web UI should I
use?](/blog/a1111-vs-comfyui)[August 22, 2024 LoRA vs. QLoRA: Efficient fine-
tuning techniques for LLMs Learn the differences between LoRA and QLoRA, two
different efficient fine-tuning techniques for large language
models.](/blog/lora-qlora)[August 16, 2024 How Modal speeds up container
launches in the cloud Optimizations for blazing fast container
launches](/blog/speeding-up-container-launches)[August 15, 2024 How much is an
Nvidia H100? Learn about the cost of Nvidia H100 GPUs and explore top GPU-on-
demand platforms for accessing this powerful
hardware.](/blog/nvidia-h100-price-article)[April 30, 2024 How to run cron
jobs A brief explanation of cron jobs, cron syntax, and how to run cron jobs
on Modal.](/blog/cron-jobs)

## Ship your first app in minutes.

[Get Started](/signup)

$30 / month free compute

[![Modal
logo](data:image/svg+xml,%3csvg%20width='368'%20height='192'%20viewBox='0%200%20368%20192'%20fill='none'%20xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'%3e%3cpath%20d='M148.873%204L183.513%2064L111.922%20188C110.492%20190.47%20107.853%20192%20104.993%20192H40.3325C38.9025%20192%2037.5325%20191.62%2036.3325%20190.93C35.1325%20190.24%2034.1226%20189.24%2033.4026%20188L1.0725%20132C-0.3575%20129.53%20-0.3575%20126.48%201.0725%20124L70.3625%204C71.0725%202.76%2072.0925%201.76001%2073.2925%201.07001C74.4925%200.380007%2075.8625%200%2077.2925%200H141.952C144.812%200%20147.453%201.53%20148.883%204H148.873ZM365.963%20124L296.672%204C295.962%202.76%20294.943%201.76001%20293.743%201.07001C292.543%200.380007%20291.173%200%20289.743%200H225.083C222.223%200%20219.583%201.53%20218.153%204L183.513%2064L255.103%20188C256.533%20190.47%20259.173%20192%20262.033%20192H326.693C328.122%20192%20329.492%20191.62%20330.693%20190.93C331.893%20190.24%20332.902%20189.24%20333.622%20188L365.953%20132C367.383%20129.53%20367.383%20126.48%20365.953%20124H365.963Z'%20fill='%2362DE61'/%3e%3cpath%20d='M109.623%2064H183.523L148.883%204C147.453%201.53%20144.813%200%20141.953%200H77.2925C75.8625%200%2074.4925%200.380007%2073.2925%201.07001L109.623%2064Z'%20fill='url\(%23paint0_linear_342_139\)'/%3e%3cpath%20d='M109.623%2064L73.2925%201.07001C72.0925%201.76001%2071.0825%202.76%2070.3625%204L1.0725%20124C-0.3575%20126.48%20-0.3575%20129.52%201.0725%20132L33.4026%20188C34.1126%20189.24%2035.1325%20190.24%2036.3325%20190.93L109.613%2064H109.623Z'%20fill='url\(%23paint1_linear_342_139\)'/%3e%3cpath%20d='M183.513%2064H109.613L36.3325%20190.93C37.5325%20191.62%2038.9025%20192%2040.3325%20192H104.993C107.853%20192%20110.492%20190.47%20111.922%20188L183.513%2064Z'%20fill='%2309AF58'/%3e%3cpath%20d='M365.963%20132C366.673%20130.76%20367.033%20129.38%20367.033%20128H294.372L258.042%20190.93C259.242%20191.62%20260.612%20192%20262.042%20192H326.703C329.563%20192%20332.202%20190.47%20333.632%20188L365.963%20132Z'%20fill='%2309AF58'/%3e%3cpath%20d='M225.083%200C223.653%200%20222.283%200.380007%20221.083%201.07001L294.362%20128H367.023C367.023%20126.62%20366.663%20125.24%20365.953%20124L296.672%204C295.242%201.53%20292.603%200%20289.743%200H225.073H225.083Z'%20fill='url\(%23paint2_linear_342_139\)'/%3e%3cpath%20d='M258.033%20190.93L294.362%20128L221.083%201.07001C219.883%201.76001%20218.873%202.76%20218.153%204L183.513%2064L255.103%20188C255.813%20189.24%20256.833%20190.24%20258.033%20190.93Z'%20fill='url\(%23paint3_linear_342_139\)'/%3e%3cdefs%3e%3clinearGradient%20id='paint0_linear_342_139'%20x1='155.803'%20y1='80'%20x2='101.003'%20y2='-14.93'%20gradientUnits='userSpaceOnUse'%3e%3cstop%20stop-
color='%23BFF9B4'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='1'%20stop-
color='%2380EE64'/%3e%3c/linearGradient%3e%3clinearGradient%20id='paint1_linear_342_139'%20x1='8.62251'%20y1='174.93'%20x2='100.072'%20y2='16.54'%20gradientUnits='userSpaceOnUse'%3e%3cstop%20stop-
color='%2380EE64'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='0.18'%20stop-
color='%237BEB63'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='0.36'%20stop-
color='%236FE562'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='0.55'%20stop-
color='%235ADA60'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='0.74'%20stop-
color='%233DCA5D'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='0.93'%20stop-
color='%2318B759'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='1'%20stop-
color='%2309AF58'/%3e%3c/linearGradient%3e%3clinearGradient%20id='paint2_linear_342_139'%20x1='340.243'%20y1='143.46'%20x2='248.793'%20y2='-14.93'%20gradientUnits='userSpaceOnUse'%3e%3cstop%20stop-
color='%23BFF9B4'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='1'%20stop-
color='%2380EE64'/%3e%3c/linearGradient%3e%3clinearGradient%20id='paint3_linear_342_139'%20x1='284.822'%20y1='175.47'%20x2='193.372'%20y2='17.0701'%20gradientUnits='userSpaceOnUse'%3e%3cstop%20stop-
color='%2380EE64'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='0.18'%20stop-
color='%237BEB63'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='0.36'%20stop-
color='%236FE562'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='0.55'%20stop-
color='%235ADA60'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='0.74'%20stop-
color='%233DCA5D'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='0.93'%20stop-
color='%2318B759'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='1'%20stop-
color='%2309AF58'/%3e%3c/linearGradient%3e%3c/defs%3e%3c/svg%3e)](/)

[](https://x.com/modal_labs) [](https://www.linkedin.com/company/modal-labs/)
[](https://modal.com/slack) [](https://github.com/modal-labs)
[](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC477UdoLR2Js3RHhRWSXsQA)

© Modal 2025

Use Cases

[Language Model Inference](/use-cases/language-models)

[Image, Video & 3D](/use-cases/image-video-3d)

[Audio Processing](/use-cases/audio)

[Fine-Tuning](/use-cases/fine-tuning)

[Job Queues & Batch Processing](/use-cases/job-queues)

[Sandboxing Code](/use-cases/sandboxes)

[Computational Biology](/use-cases/comp-bio)

Resources

[Documentation](/docs/guide)

[Pricing](/pricing)

[Slack Community](/slack)

[Articles](/articles)

[GPU Glossary](/gpu-glossary)

[LLM Engine Advisor](/llm-almanac)

[Model Library](/library)

Popular Examples

[Serve LLM APIs with vLLM](/docs/examples/vllm_inference)

[Create custom art of your pet](/docs/examples/dreambooth_app)

[Analyze Parquet files from S3 with DuckDB](/docs/examples/s3_bucket_mount)

[Run hundreds of LoRAs from one app](/docs/examples/cloud_bucket_mount_loras)

[Finetune an LLM to replace your CEO](/docs/examples/llm-finetuning)

Company

[About](/company)

[Blog](/blog)

[Careers](/careers)

[Privacy Policy](/legal/privacy-policy)

[Security & Privacy](/docs/guide/security)

[Terms](/legal/terms)

[](https://x.com/modal_labs) [](https://www.linkedin.com/company/modal-labs/)
[](https://modal.com/slack) [](https://github.com/modal-labs)
[](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC477UdoLR2Js3RHhRWSXsQA)

© Modal 2025
