* * *

Copy page

# Filesystem Access

There are multiple options for uploading files to a Sandbox and accessing them
from outside the Sandbox.

## Efficient file syncing

To efficiently upload local files to a Sandbox, you can use the
[`add_local_file`](/docs/reference/modal.Image#add_local_file) and
[`add_local_dir`](/docs/reference/modal.Image#add_local_dir) methods on the
[`Image`](/docs/reference/modal.Image) class:

    sb = modal.Sandbox.create(
        app=my_app,
        image=modal.Image.debian_slim().add_local_dir(
            local_path="/home/user/my_dir",
            remote_path="/app"
        )
    )
    p = sb.exec("ls", "/app")
    print(p.stdout.read())
    p.wait()

Copy

Alternatively, it’s possible to use Modal
[Volume](/docs/reference/modal.Volume)s or
[CloudBucketMount](/docs/guide/cloud-bucket-mounts)s. These have the benefit
that files created from inside the Sandbox can easily be accessed outside the
Sandbox.

To efficiently upload files to a Sandbox using a Volume, you can use the
[`batch_upload`](/docs/reference/modal.Volume#batch_upload) method on the
`Volume` class - for instance, using an ephemeral Volume that will be garbage
collected when the App finishes:

    with modal.Volume.ephemeral() as vol:
        import io
        with vol.batch_upload() as batch:
            batch.put_file("local-path.txt", "/remote-path.txt")
            batch.put_directory("/local/directory/", "/remote/directory")
            batch.put_file(io.BytesIO(b"some data"), "/foobar")

        sb = modal.Sandbox.create(
            volumes={"/cache": vol},
            app=my_app,
        )
        p = sb.exec("cat", "/cache/remote-path.txt")
        print(p.stdout.read())
        p.wait()
        sb.terminate()

Copy

The caller also can access files created in the Volume from the Sandbox, even
after the Sandbox is terminated:

    with modal.Volume.ephemeral() as vol:
        sb = modal.Sandbox.create(
            volumes={"/cache": vol},
            app=my_app,
        )
        p = sb.exec("bash", "-c", "echo foo > /cache/a.txt")
        p.wait()
        sb.terminate()
        sb.wait(raise_on_termination=False)
        for data in vol.read_file("a.txt"):
            print(data)

Copy

Alternatively, if you want to persist files between Sandbox invocations
(useful if you’re building a stateful code interpreter, for example), you can
use create a persisted `Volume` with a dynamically assigned label:

    session_id = "example-session-id-123abc"
    vol = modal.Volume.from_name(f"vol-{session_id}", create_if_missing=True)
    sb = modal.Sandbox.create(
        volumes={"/cache": vol},
        app=my_app,
    )
    p = sb.exec("bash", "-c", "echo foo > /cache/a.txt")
    p.wait()
    sb.terminate()
    sb.wait(raise_on_termination=False)
    for data in vol.read_file("a.txt"):
        print(data)

Copy

File syncing behavior differs between Volumes and CloudBucketMounts. For
Volumes, files are only synced back to the Volume when the Sandbox terminates.
For CloudBucketMounts, files are synced automatically.

## Filesystem API (Alpha)

If you’re less concerned with efficiency of uploads and want a convenient way
to pass data in and out of the Sandbox during execution, you can use our
filesystem API to easily read and write files. The API supports reading files
up to 100 MiB and writes up to 1 GiB in size.

This API is currently in Alpha, and we don’t recommend using it for production
workloads.

    import modal

    app = modal.App.lookup("sandbox-fs-demo", create_if_missing=True)

    sb = modal.Sandbox.create(app=app)

    with sb.open("test.txt", "w") as f:
        f.write("Hello World\n")

    f = sb.open("test.txt", "rb")
    print(f.read())
    f.close()

Copy

The filesystem API is similar to Python’s built-in
[io.FileIO](https://docs.python.org/3/library/io.html#io.FileIO) and supports
many of the same methods, including `read`, `readline`, `readlines`, `write`,
`flush`, `seek`, and `close`.

We also provide the special methods `replace_bytes` and `delete_bytes`, which
may be useful for LLM-generated code.

    from modal.file_io import delete_bytes, replace_bytes

    with sb.open("example.txt", "w") as f:
        f.write("The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog")

    with sb.open("example.txt", "r+") as f:
        # The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog
        print(f.read())

        # The slow brown fox jumps over the lazy dog
        replace_bytes(f, b"slow", start=4, end=9)

        # The slow red fox jumps over the lazy dog
        replace_bytes(f, b"red", start=9, end=14)

        # The slow red fox jumps over the dog
        delete_bytes(f, start=32, end=37)

        f.seek(0)
        print(f.read())

    sb.terminate()

Copy

We additionally provide commands
[`mkdir`](/docs/reference/modal.Sandbox#mkdir),
[`rm`](/docs/reference/modal.Sandbox#rm), and
[`ls`](/docs/reference/modal.Sandbox#ls) to make interacting with the
filesystem more ergonomic.

Filesystem AccessEfficient file syncingFilesystem API (Alpha)
