* * *

Copy page

# Sandboxes

In addition to the Function interface, Modal has a direct interface for
defining containers _at runtime_ and securely running arbitrary code inside
them.

This can be useful if, for example, you want to:

  * Execute code generated by a language model.
  * Create isolated environments for running untrusted code.
  * Check out a git repository and run a command against it, like a test suite, or `npm lint`.
  * Run containers with arbitrary dependencies and setup scripts.

Each individual job is called a **Sandbox** and can be created using the
[`Sandbox.create`](/docs/reference/modal.Sandbox#create) constructor:

    import modal

    app = modal.App.lookup("my-app", create_if_missing=True)

    sb = modal.Sandbox.create(app=app)

    p = sb.exec("python", "-c", "print('hello')", timeout=3)
    print(p.stdout.read())

    p = sb.exec("bash", "-c", "for i in {1..10}; do date +%T; sleep 0.5; done", timeout=5)
    for line in p.stdout:
        # Avoid double newlines by using end="".
        print(line, end="")

    sb.terminate()

Copy

**Note:** you can run the above example as a script directly with `python
my_script.py`. `modal run` is not needed here since there is no
[entrypoint](/docs/guide/apps#entrypoints-for-ephemeral-apps).

Sandboxes require an [`App`](/docs/guide/apps) to be passed when spawned from
outside of a Modal container. You may pass in a regular `App` object or look
one up by name with [`App.lookup`](/docs/reference/modal.App#lookup). The
`create_if_missing` flag on `App.lookup` will create an `App` with the given
name if it doesn’t exist.

## Running a Sandbox with an entrypoint

In most cases, Sandboxes are treated as a generic container that can run
arbitrary commands. However, in some cases, you may want to run a single
command or script as the entrypoint of the Sandbox. You can do this by passing
string arguments to the Sandbox constructor:

    sb = modal.Sandbox.create("python", "-m", "http.server", "8080", app=my_app, timeout=10)
    for line in sb.stdout:
        print(line, end="")

Copy

This functionality is most useful for running long-lived services that you
want to keep running in the background. See our [Jupyter notebook
example](/docs/examples/jupyter_sandbox) for a more concrete example of this.

## Referencing Sandboxes from other code

If you have a running Sandbox, you can retrieve it using the
[`Sandbox.from_id`](/docs/reference/modal.Sandbox#from_id) method.

    sb = modal.Sandbox.create(app=my_app)
    sb_id = sb.object_id

    # ... later in the program ...

    sb2 = modal.Sandbox.from_id(sb_id)

    p = sb2.exec("echo", "hello")
    print(p.stdout.read())
    sb2.terminate()

Copy

A common use case for this is keeping a pool of Sandboxes available for
executing tasks as they come in. You can keep a list of `object_id`s of
Sandboxes that are “open” and reuse them, closing over the `object_id` in
whatever function is using them.

## Parameters

Sandboxes support nearly all configuration options found in regular
`modal.Function`s. Refer to
[`Sandbox.create`](/docs/reference/modal.Sandbox#create) for further
documentation on Sandbox parametrization.

For example, Images and Volumes can be used just as with functions:

    sb = modal.Sandbox.create(
        image=modal.Image.debian_slim().pip_install("pandas"),
        volumes={"/data": modal.Volume.from_name("my-volume")},
        workdir="/repo",
        app=my_app,
    )

Copy

### Using custom images

Sandboxes support custom images just as Functions do. However, while you’ll
typically invoke a Modal Function with the `modal run` cli, you typically
spawn a Sandbox with a simple `python` call. As such, you need to manually
enable output streaming to see your image build logs:

    image = modal.Image.debian_slim().pip_install("pandas", "numpy")

    with modal.enable_output():
        sb = modal.Sandbox.create(image=image, app=my_app)

Copy

### Dynamically defined environments

Note that any valid `Image` or `Mount` can be used with a Sandbox, even if
those images or mounts have not previously been defined. This also means that
Images and Mounts can be built from requirements at **runtime**. For example,
you could use a language model to write some code and define your image, and
then spawn a Sandbox with it. Check out [devlooper](https://github.com/modal-
labs/devlooper) for a concrete example of this.

### Environment variables

You can set environment variables using inline secrets:

    secret = modal.Secret.from_dict({"MY_SECRET": "hello"})

    sb = modal.Sandbox.create(
        secrets=[secret],
        app=my_app,
    )
    p = sb.exec("bash", "-c", "echo $MY_SECRET")
    print(p.stdout.read())

Copy

### Verbose logging

You can see Sandbox execution logs using `verbose=True`. For example:

    sb = modal.Sandbox.create(app=my_app, verbose=True)

    p = sb.exec("python", "-c", "print('hello')")
    print(p.stdout.read())

    with sb.open("test.txt", "w") as f:
        f.write("Hello World\n")

Copy

shows Sandbox logs:

    Sandbox exec started: python -c print('hello')
    Opened file 'test.txt': fd-yErSQzGL9sig6WAjyNgTPR
    Wrote to file: fd-yErSQzGL9sig6WAjyNgTPR
    Closed file: fd-yErSQzGL9sig6WAjyNgTPR

Copy

## Named Sandboxes

You can assign a name to a Sandbox when creating it. Each name must be unique
within an app - only one _running_ Sandbox can use a given name at a time.
Once a Sandbox completely stops running, its name becomes available for reuse.
Some applications find Sandbox Names to be useful for ensuring that no more
than one Sandbox is running per resource or project. If a Sandbox with the
given name is already running, `create()` will raise a
`modal.exception.AlreadyExistsError`.

    sb1 = modal.Sandbox.create(app=my_app, name="my-name")
    # this will raise a modal.exception.AlreadyExistsError
    sb2 = modal.Sandbox.create(app=my_app, name="my-name")

Copy

A named Sandbox may be fetched using `modal.Sandbox.from_name()` _but only if
the Sandbox is currently running_. If no running Sandbox is found,
`from_name()` will raise a `modal.exception.NotFoundError`.

    my_app = modal.App.lookup("my-app", create_if_missing=True)
    sb1 = modal.Sandbox.create(app=my_app, name="my-name")
    # returns the currently running Sandbox with the name "my-name"
    sb2 = modal.Sandbox.from_name("my-app", "my-name")
    assert sb1.object_id == sb2.object_id # sb1 and sb2 refer to the same Sandbox

Copy

## Tagging

Sandboxes can also be tagged with arbitrary key-value pairs. These tags can be
used to filter results in
[`Sandbox.list`](/docs/reference/modal.Sandbox#list).

    sandbox_v1_1 = modal.Sandbox.create("sleep", "10", app=my_app)
    sandbox_v1_2 = modal.Sandbox.create("sleep", "20", app=my_app)

    sandbox_v1_1.set_tags({"major_version": "1", "minor_version": "1"})
    sandbox_v1_2.set_tags({"major_version": "1", "minor_version": "2"})

    for sandbox in modal.Sandbox.list(app_id=my_app.app_id):  # All sandboxes.
        print(sandbox.object_id)

    for sandbox in modal.Sandbox.list(
        app_id=my_app.app_id,
        tags={"major_version": "1"},
    ):  # Also all sandboxes.
        print(sandbox.object_id)

    for sandbox in modal.Sandbox.list(
        app_id=app.app_id,
        tags={"major_version": "1", "minor_version": "2"},
    ):  # Just the latest sandbox.
        print(sandbox.object_id)

Copy

SandboxesRunning a Sandbox with an entrypointReferencing Sandboxes from other
codeParametersUsing custom imagesDynamically defined environmentsEnvironment
variablesVerbose loggingNamed SandboxesTagging

See it in action

[Building a coding agent with Sandboxes](/docs/examples/agent)

[Building a code interpreter](/docs/examples/simple_code_interpreter)

[Running a Jupyter notebook](/docs/examples/jupyter_sandbox)

[Safe code execution](/docs/examples/safe_code_execution)
