* * *

Copy page

# Tunnels

Modal allows you to expose live TCP ports on a Modal container. This is done
by creating a _tunnel_ that forwards the port to the public Internet.

    import modal

    app = modal.App()

    @app.function()
    def start_app():
        # Inside this `with` block, port 8000 on the container can be accessed by
        # the address at `tunnel.url`, which is randomly assigned.
        with modal.forward(8000) as tunnel:
            print(f"tunnel.url        = {tunnel.url}")
            print(f"tunnel.tls_socket = {tunnel.tls_socket}")
            # ... start some web server at port 8000, using any framework

Copy

Tunnels are direct connections and terminate TLS automatically. Within a few
milliseconds of container startup, this function prints a message such as:

    tunnel.url        = https://wtqcahqwhd4tu0.r5.modal.host
    tunnel.tls_socket = ('wtqcahqwhd4tu0.r5.modal.host', 443)

Copy

You can also create tunnels on a [Sandbox](/docs/guide/sandbox-
networking#forwarding-ports) to directly expose the container’s ports.

## Build with tunnels

Tunnels are the fastest way to get a low-latency, direct connection to a
running container. You can use them to run live browser applications with
**interactive terminals** , **Jupyter notebooks** , **VS Code servers** , and
more.

As a quick example, here is how you would expose a Jupyter notebook:

    import os
    import secrets
    import subprocess

    import modal

    app = modal.App()
    app.image = modal.Image.debian_slim().pip_install("jupyterlab")

    @app.function()
    def run_jupyter():
        token = secrets.token_urlsafe(13)
        with modal.forward(8888) as tunnel:
            url = tunnel.url + "/?token=" + token
            print(f"Starting Jupyter at {url}")
            subprocess.run(
                [
                    "jupyter",
                    "lab",
                    "--no-browser",
                    "--allow-root",
                    "--ip=0.0.0.0",
                    "--port=8888",
                    "--LabApp.allow_origin='*'",
                    "--LabApp.allow_remote_access=1",
                ],
                env={**os.environ, "JUPYTER_TOKEN": token, "SHELL": "/bin/bash"},
                stderr=subprocess.DEVNULL,
            )

Copy

When you run the function, it starts Jupyter and gives you the public URL.
It’s as simple as that.

All Modal features are supported. If you [need
GPUs](https://modal.com/docs/guide/gpu), pass `gpu=` to the `@app.function()`
decorator. If you [need more CPUs,
RAM](https://modal.com/docs/guide/resources), or to attach
[volumes](https://modal.com/docs/guide/volumes), those also just work.

### Programmable startup

The tunnel API is completely on-demand, so you can start them as the result of
a web request.

For example, you could make something like Jupyter Hub without leaving Modal,
giving your users their own Jupyter notebooks when they visit a URL:

    import modal

    image = modal.Image.debian_slim().pip_install("fastapi[standard]")
    app = modal.App(image=image)

    @app.function(timeout=900)  # 15 minutes
    def run_jupyter(q):
        ...  # as before, but return the URL on app.q

    @app.function()
    @modal.fastapi_endpoint(method="POST")
    def jupyter_hub():
        from fastapi import HTTPException
        from fastapi.responses import RedirectResponse

        ...  # do some validation on the secret or bearer token

        if is_valid:
            with modal.Queue.ephemeral() as q:
                run_jupyter.spawn(q)
                url = q.get()
                return RedirectResponse(url, status_code=303)

        else:
            raise HTTPException(401, "Not authenticated")

Copy

This gives every user who sends a POST request to the web endpoint their own
Jupyter notebook server, on a fully isolated Modal container.

You could do the same with VS Code and get some basic version of an instant,
serverless IDE!

### Advanced: Unencrypted TCP tunnels

By default, tunnels are only exposed to the Internet at a secure random URL,
and connections have automatic TLS (the “S” in HTTPS). However, sometimes you
might need to expose a protocol like an SSH server that goes directly over
TCP. In this case, we have support for _unencrypted_ tunnels:

    with modal.forward(8000, unencrypted=True) as tunnel:
        print(f"tunnel.tcp_socket = {tunnel.tcp_socket}")

Copy

Might produce an output like:

    tunnel.tcp_socket = ('r3.modal.host', 23447)

Copy

You can then connect over TCP, for example with `nc r3.modal.host 23447`.
Unlike encrypted TLS sockets, these cannot be given a non-guessable,
cryptographically random URL due to how the TCP protocol works, so they are
assigned a random port number instead.

## Pricing

Modal only charges for containers based on [the resources you
use](https://modal.com/pricing). There is no additional charge for having an
active tunnel.

For example, if you start a Jupyter notebook on port 8888 and access it via
tunnel, you can use it for an hour for development (with 0.01 CPUs) and then
actually run an intensive job with 16 CPUs for one minute. The amount you
would be billed for in that hour is 0.01 + 16 * (1/60) = **0.28 CPUs** , even
though you had access to 16 CPUs without needing to restart your notebook.

## Security

Tunnels are run on Modal’s private global network of Internet relays. On
startup, your container will connect to the nearest tunnel so you get the
minimum latency, very similar in performance to a direct connection with the
machine.

This makes them ideal for live debugging sessions, using web-based terminals
like [ttyd](https://github.com/tsl0922/ttyd).

The generated URLs are cryptographically random, but they are also public on
the Internet, so anyone can access your application if they are given the URL.

We do not currently do any detection of requests above L4, so if you are
running a web server, we will not add special proxy HTTP headers or translate
HTTP/2. You’re just getting the TLS-encrypted TCP stream directly!

TunnelsBuild with tunnelsProgrammable startupAdvanced: Unencrypted TCP
tunnelsPricingSecurity
