* * *

Copy page

# Web endpoints

This guide explains how to set up web endpoints with Modal.

All deployed Modal Functions can be [invoked from any other Python
application](/docs/guide/trigger-deployed-functions) using the Modal client
library. We additionally provide multiple ways to expose your Functions over
the web for non-Python clients.

You can turn any Python function into a web endpoint with a single line of
code, you can serve a full app using frameworks like FastAPI, Django, or
Flask, or you can serve anything that speaks HTTP and listens on a port.

Below we walk through each method, assuming you’re familiar with web
applications outside of Modal. For a detailed walkthrough of basic web
endpoints on Modal aimed at developers new to web applications, see [this
tutorial](/docs/examples/basic_web).

## Simple endpoints

The easiest way to create a web endpoint from an existing Python function is
to use the [`@modal.fastapi_endpoint`
decorator](/docs/reference/modal.fastapi_endpoint).

    image = modal.Image.debian_slim().pip_install("fastapi[standard]")

    @app.function(image=image)
    @modal.fastapi_endpoint()
    def f():
        return "Hello world!"

Copy

This decorator wraps the Modal Function in a FastAPI application.

_Note: Prior to v0.73.82, this function was named`@modal.web_endpoint`_.

### Developing with `modal serve`

You can run this code as an ephemeral app, by running the command

    modal serve server_script.py

Copy

Where `server_script.py` is the file name of your code. This will create an
ephemeral app for the duration of your script (until you hit Ctrl-C to stop
it). It creates a temporary URL that you can use like any other REST endpoint.
This URL is on the public internet.

The `modal serve` command will live-update an app when any of its supporting
files change.

Live updating is particularly useful when working with apps containing web
endpoints, as any changes made to web endpoint handlers will show up almost
immediately, without requiring a manual restart of the app.

### Deploying with `modal deploy`

You can also deploy your app and create a persistent web endpoint in the cloud
by running `modal deploy`:

### Passing arguments to an endpoint

When using `@modal.fastapi_endpoint`, you can add [query
parameters](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/query-params/) which will be
passed to your Function as arguments. For instance

    image = modal.Image.debian_slim().pip_install("fastapi[standard]")

    @app.function(image=image)
    @modal.fastapi_endpoint()
    def square(x: int):
        return {"square": x**2}

Copy

If you hit this with a URL-encoded query string with the `x` parameter
present, the Function will receive the value as an argument:

    $ curl https://modal-labs--web-endpoint-square-dev.modal.run?x=42
    {"square":1764}

Copy

If you want to use a `POST` request, you can use the `method` argument to
`@modal.fastapi_endpoint` to set the HTTP verb. To accept any valid JSON
object, [use `dict` as your type
annotation](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/body-nested-
models/?h=dict#bodies-of-arbitrary-dicts) and FastAPI will handle the rest.

    image = modal.Image.debian_slim().pip_install("fastapi[standard]")

    @app.function(image=image)
    @modal.fastapi_endpoint(method="POST")
    def square(item: dict):
        return {"square": item['x']**2}

Copy

This now creates an endpoint that takes a JSON body:

    $ curl -X POST -H 'Content-Type: application/json' --data-binary '{"x": 42}' https://modal-labs--web-endpoint-square-dev.modal.run
    {"square":1764}

Copy

This is often the easiest way to get started, but note that FastAPI recommends
that you use [typed Pydantic
models](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/body/) in order to get automatic
validation and documentation. FastAPI also lets you pass data to web endpoints
in other ways, for instance as [form
data](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/request-forms/) and [file
uploads](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/request-files/).

## How do web endpoints run in the cloud?

Note that web endpoints, like everything else on Modal, only run when they
need to. When you hit the web endpoint the first time, it will boot up the
container, which might take a few seconds. Modal keeps the container alive for
a short period in case there are subsequent requests. If there are a lot of
requests, Modal might create more containers running in parallel.

For the shortcut `@modal.fastapi_endpoint` decorator, Modal wraps your
function in a [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/) application. This means
that the [Image](/docs/guide/images) your Function uses must have FastAPI
installed, and the Functions that you write need to follow its request and
response [semantics](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial). Web endpoint
Functions can use all of FastAPI’s powerful features, such as Pydantic models
for automatic validation, typed query and path parameters, and response types.

Here’s everything together, combining Modal’s abilities to run functions in
user-defined containers with the expressivity of FastAPI:

    import modal
    from fastapi.responses import HTMLResponse
    from pydantic import BaseModel

    image = modal.Image.debian_slim().pip_install("fastapi[standard]", "boto3")
    app = modal.App(image=image)

    class Item(BaseModel):
        name: str
        qty: int = 42

    @app.function()
    @modal.fastapi_endpoint(method="POST")
    def f(item: Item):
        import boto3
        # do things with boto3...
        return HTMLResponse(f"<html>Hello, {item.name}!</html>")

Copy

This endpoint definition would be called like so:

    curl -d '{"name": "Erik", "qty": 10}' \
        -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
        -X POST https://ecorp--web-demo-f-dev.modal.run

Copy

Or in Python with the [`requests`](https://pypi.org/project/requests/)
library:

    import requests

    data = {"name": "Erik", "qty": 10}
    requests.post("https://ecorp--web-demo-f-dev.modal.run", json=data, timeout=10.0)

Copy

## Serving ASGI and WSGI apps

You can also serve any app written in an
[ASGI](https://asgi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) or
[WSGI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_Server_Gateway_Interface)-compatible
web framework on Modal.

ASGI provides support for async web frameworks. WSGI provides support for
synchronous web frameworks.

### ASGI apps - FastAPI, FastHTML, Starlette

For ASGI apps, you can create a function decorated with
[`@modal.asgi_app`](/docs/reference/modal.asgi_app) that returns a reference
to your web app:

    image = modal.Image.debian_slim().pip_install("fastapi[standard]")

    @app.function(image=image)
    @modal.concurrent(max_inputs=100)
    @modal.asgi_app()
    def fastapi_app():
        from fastapi import FastAPI, Request

        web_app = FastAPI()

        @web_app.post("/echo")
        async def echo(request: Request):
            body = await request.json()
            return body

        return web_app

Copy

Now, as before, when you deploy this script as a Modal App, you get a URL for
your app that you can hit:

The `@modal.concurrent` decorator enables a single container to process
multiple inputs at once, taking advantage of the asynchronous event loops in
ASGI applications. See [this guide](/docs/guide/concurrent-inputs) for
details.

#### ASGI Lifespan

While we recommend using
[`@modal.enter`](https://modal.com/docs/guide/lifecycle-functions#enter) for
defining container lifecycle hooks, we also support the [ASGI lifespan
protocol](https://asgi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/specs/lifespan.html).
Lifespans begin when containers start, typically at the time of the first
request. Here’s an example using
[FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/advanced/events/#lifespan):

    import modal

    app = modal.App("fastapi-lifespan-app")

    image = modal.Image.debian_slim().pip_install("fastapi[standard]")

    @app.function(image=image)
    @modal.asgi_app()
    def fastapi_app_with_lifespan():
        from fastapi import FastAPI, Request

        def lifespan(wapp: FastAPI):
            print("Starting")
            yield
            print("Shutting down")

        web_app = FastAPI(lifespan=lifespan)

        @web_app.get("/")
        async def hello(request: Request):
            return "hello"

        return web_app

Copy

### WSGI apps - Django, Flask

You can serve WSGI apps using the
[`@modal.wsgi_app`](/docs/reference/modal.wsgi_app) decorator:

    image = modal.Image.debian_slim().pip_install("flask")

    @app.function(image=image)
    @modal.concurrent(max_inputs=100)
    @modal.wsgi_app()
    def flask_app():
        from flask import Flask, request

        web_app = Flask(__name__)

        @web_app.post("/echo")
        def echo():
            return request.json

        return web_app

Copy

See [Flask’s docs](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.1.x/deploying/asgi/)
for more information on using Flask as a WSGI app.

Because WSGI apps are synchronous, concurrent inputs will be run on separate
threads. See [this guide](/docs/guide/concurrent-inputs) for details.

## Non-ASGI web servers

Not all web frameworks offer an ASGI or WSGI interface. For example,
[`aiohttp`](https://docs.aiohttp.org/) and
[`tornado`](https://www.tornadoweb.org/) use their own asynchronous network
binding, while others like [`text-generation-
inference`](https://github.com/huggingface/text-generation-inference) actually
expose a Rust-based HTTP server running as a subprocess.

For these cases, you can use the
[`@modal.web_server`](/docs/reference/modal.web_server) decorator to “expose”
a port on the container:

    @app.function()
    @modal.concurrent(max_inputs=100)
    @modal.web_server(8000)
    def my_file_server():
        import subprocess
        subprocess.Popen("python -m http.server -d / 8000", shell=True)

Copy

Just like all web endpoints on Modal, this is only run on-demand. The function
is executed on container startup, creating a file server at the root
directory. When you hit the web endpoint URL, your request will be routed to
the file server listening on port `8000`.

For `@web_server` endpoints, you need to make sure that the application binds
to the external network interface, not just localhost. This usually means
binding to `0.0.0.0` instead of `127.0.0.1`.

See our examples of how to serve [Streamlit](/docs/examples/serve_streamlit)
and [ComfyUI](/docs/examples/comfyapp) on Modal.

## Serve many configurations with parametrized functions

Python functions that launch ASGI/WSGI apps or web servers on Modal cannot
take arguments.

One simple pattern for allowing client-side configuration of these web
endpoints is to use [parametrized functions](/docs/guide/parametrized-
functions). Each different choice for the values of the parameters will create
a distinct auto-scaling container pool.

    @app.cls()
    @modal.concurrent(max_inputs=100)
    class Server:
        root: str = modal.parameter(default=".")

        @modal.web_server(8000)
        def files(self):
            import subprocess
            subprocess.Popen(f"python -m http.server -d {self.root} 8000", shell=True)

Copy

The values are provided in URLs as query parameters:

    curl https://ecorp--server-files.modal.run		# use the default value
    curl https://ecorp--server-files.modal.run?root=.cache  # use a different value
    curl https://ecorp--server-files.modal.run?root=%2F	# don't forget to URL encode!

Copy

For details, see [this guide to parametrized
functions](/docs/guide/parametrized-functions).

## WebSockets

Functions annotated with `@web_server`, `@asgi_app`, or `@wsgi_app` also
support the WebSocket protocol. Consult your web framework for appropriate
documentation on how to use WebSockets with that library.

WebSockets on Modal maintain a single function call per connection, which can
be useful for keeping state around. Most of the time, you will want to set
your handler function to [allow concurrent inputs](/docs/guide/concurrent-
inputs), which allows multiple simultaneous WebSocket connections to be
handled by the same container.

We support the full WebSocket protocol as per [RFC 6455](https://www.rfc-
editor.org/rfc/rfc6455), but we do not yet have support for [RFC
8441](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8441) (WebSockets over HTTP/2) or [RFC
7692](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7692) (`permessage-deflate`
extension). WebSocket messages can be up to 2 MiB each.

## Performance and scaling

If you have no active containers when the web endpoint receives a request, it
will experience a “cold start”. Consult the guide page on [cold start
performance](/docs/guide/cold-start) for more information on when Functions
will cold start and advice how to mitigate the impact.

If your Function uses `@modal.concurrent`, multiple requests to the same
endpoint may be handled by the same container. Beyond this limit, additional
containers will start up to scale your App horizontally. When you reach the
Function’s limit on containers, requests will queue for handling.

Each workspace on Modal has a rate limit on total operations. For a new
account, this is set to 200 function inputs or web endpoint requests per
second, with a burst multiplier of 5 seconds. If you reach the rate limit,
excess requests to web endpoints will return a [429 status
code](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/429), and
you’ll need to [get in touch](mailto:support@modal.com) with us about raising
the limit.

Web endpoint request bodies can be up to 4 GiB, and their response bodies are
unlimited in size.

## Authentication

Modal offers first-class web endpoint protection via [proxy auth
tokens](https://modal.com/docs/guide/webhook-proxy-auth). Proxy auth tokens
protect web endpoints by requiring a key and token combination to be passed in
the `Modal-Key` and `Modal-Secret` headers. Modal works as a proxy, rejecting
requests that aren’t authorized to access your endpoint.

We also support standard techniques for securing web servers.

### Token-based authentication

This is easy to implement in whichever framework you’re using. For example, if
you’re using `@modal.fastapi_endpoint` or `@modal.asgi_app` with FastAPI, you
can validate a Bearer token like this:

    from fastapi import Depends, HTTPException, status, Request
    from fastapi.security import HTTPBearer, HTTPAuthorizationCredentials

    import modal

    image = modal.Image.debian_slim().pip_install("fastapi[standard]")
    app = modal.App("auth-example", image=image)

    auth_scheme = HTTPBearer()

    @app.function(secrets=[modal.Secret.from_name("my-web-auth-token")])
    @modal.fastapi_endpoint()
    async def f(request: Request, token: HTTPAuthorizationCredentials = Depends(auth_scheme)):
        import os

        print(os.environ["AUTH_TOKEN"])

        if token.credentials != os.environ["AUTH_TOKEN"]:
            raise HTTPException(
                status_code=status.HTTP_401_UNAUTHORIZED,
                detail="Incorrect bearer token",
                headers={"WWW-Authenticate": "Bearer"},
            )

        # Function body
        return "success!"

Copy

This assumes you have a [Modal Secret](https://modal.com/secrets) named `my-
web-auth-token` created, with contents `{AUTH_TOKEN: secret-random-token}`.
Now, your endpoint will return a 401 status code except when you hit it with
the correct `Authorization` header set (note that you have to prefix the token
with `Bearer`):

    curl --header "Authorization: Bearer secret-random-token" https://modal-labs--auth-example-f.modal.run

Copy

### Client IP address

You can access the IP address of the client making the request. This can be
used for geolocation, whitelists, blacklists, and rate limits.

    from fastapi import Request

    import modal

    image = modal.Image.debian_slim().pip_install("fastapi[standard]")
    app = modal.App(image=image)

    @app.function()
    @modal.fastapi_endpoint()
    def get_ip_address(request: Request):
        return f"Your IP address is {request.client.host}"

Copy

Web endpointsSimple endpointsDeveloping with modal serveDeploying with modal
deployPassing arguments to an endpointHow do web endpoints run in the
cloud?Serving ASGI and WSGI appsASGI apps - FastAPI, FastHTML, StarletteASGI
LifespanWSGI apps - Django, FlaskNon-ASGI web serversServe many configurations
with parametrized functionsWebSocketsPerformance and
scalingAuthenticationToken-based authenticationClient IP address

Fully featured web apps

[LLM Voice Chat (React)](/docs/examples/llm-voice-chat)

[Stable Diffusion (Alpine)](/docs/examples/stable_diffusion_cli)

[Whisper Podcast Transcriber (React)](/docs/examples/whisper-transcriber)
