# Modal Sandboxes

Run gpt-oss, OpenAI's new open weights model. [Run
now](/docs/examples/gpt_oss_inference)

[ ![Modal logo](/_app/immutable/assets/logo.lottie.CgmMXf1s.png)](/)

Use Cases

[Playground](/playground)[Pricing](/pricing)[Customers](/customers)[Blog](/blog)[Docs](/docs)[Company](/company)

[Log In](/login?next=%2Fapps) [ Sign Up ](/signup?next=%2Fapps)

# Modal Sandboxes

![](https://modal-cdn.com/use-case-sandboxes-header.webp)

Run AI-generated code in secure, dynamically defined sandboxes. Scale to
10,000+ simultaneous sessions with ease.

[Get Started](/signup) Contact Us

![](https://modal-cdn.com/use-case-sandboxes-header.webp)

[![customer
logo](/_app/immutable/assets/CodegenTestimonial.Dn_1_LRo.svg)](https://www.codegen.com/)

“Using Modal, Codegen has been able to move at lightning speed with full-stack
AI development. The product is designed with developer experience front and
center, and my team is incredibly happy having it as part of our arsenal.”

Jay Hack, Founder & CEO

[![customer
logo](/_app/immutable/assets/Basis.DNhnLXGd.svg)](https://www.getbasis.ai/)

“We use Modal to securely run LLM-augmented code on a large scale. Modal’s
powerful primitives like sandboxes and file systems have allowed us to focus
on our core competencies without having to waste time on our own infra.”

Matt Harpe, Co-Founder

[![customer
logo](/_app/immutable/assets/Mistral.BuBT5ERP.svg)](https://mistral.ai/en)

“Modal Sandboxes enable us to execute generated code securely and flexibly.
With Modal's support, we expedited the development of our code interpreter
feature and successfully integrated it into our chat platform, Le Chat, to
better assist our users.”

Wendy Shang, AI Scientist

### Modal Sandbox Pricing

Only pay for what you use, by the CPU cycle. For GPU Sandboxes, refer to our
standard GPU prices.

[View full pricing](/pricing)

### Compute costs

Per hour

Per second

Per hour

Per second

* * *

CPU

Physical core
(2 vCPU equivalent)

$0.00003942 / core / sec

*minimum of 0.125 cores per container

* * *

Memory

$0.00000672 / GiB / sec

### Safe code execution

[View Examples](/docs/examples/simple_code_interpreter)

* * *

Execution of AI-generated code

Run code snippets created by language models or submitted by users in a secure
environment.

* * *

LLM evaluations

Test the latest LLM models for safety and quality.

* * *

gVisor-based runtime

Rely on strict security and isolation guarantees from our battle-tested
containerization technology.

![](https://modal-cdn.com/use-case-sandbox-code.webp)

* * *

Execution of AI-generated code

* * *

LLM evaluations

* * *

gVisor-based runtime

[View Examples](/docs/examples/simple_code_interpreter)

### Fully programmable container environment

[View Examples](/docs/guide/sandbox)

* * *

Universal code execution

Orchestrate and run any kind of code or container image, even if it's not
Python-based.

* * *

Out of the box interactivity

Execute processes in an ongoing sandbox session, and get input/output
streaming with each.

![](https://modal-cdn.com/use-case-tensor-rt.webp)

* * *

Universal code execution

* * *

Out of the box interactivity

[View Examples](/docs/guide/sandbox)

### Advanced sandbox features

[View Examples](/docs/guide/tunnels)

* * *

Persistent data management

Maintain stateful data across sessions with dynamically-provisioned network
file systems.

* * *

Network accessibility

Create tunnels to expose ports inside the sandbox.

* * *

Network security

Control over outbound networking.

![](https://modal-cdn.com/use-case-tunneling.webp)

* * *

Persistent data management

* * *

Network accessibility

* * *

Network security

[View Examples](/docs/guide/tunnels)

## Try it out

[View all](/docs/examples)

### [Sandbox a LangGraph agent's code Run an LLM coding agent that runs its
own language models ](/docs/examples/agent)

### [Build a stateful, sandboxed code interpreter Execute untrusted Python
code in a sandboxed environment ](/docs/examples/simple_code_interpreter)

### [Safely run untrusted Node.js, Ruby, PHP, and more Execute arbitrary code
in your language of choice inside a Sandbox
](/docs/examples/safe_code_execution)

### [Run a sandboxed Jupyter notebook Set up a sandboxed Jupyter server and
issue commands via an API ](/docs/examples/jupyter_sandbox)

## Ship your first app in minutes.

[Get Started](/signup)

$30 / month free compute

[![Modal
logo](data:image/svg+xml,%3csvg%20width='368'%20height='192'%20viewBox='0%200%20368%20192'%20fill='none'%20xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'%3e%3cpath%20d='M148.873%204L183.513%2064L111.922%20188C110.492%20190.47%20107.853%20192%20104.993%20192H40.3325C38.9025%20192%2037.5325%20191.62%2036.3325%20190.93C35.1325%20190.24%2034.1226%20189.24%2033.4026%20188L1.0725%20132C-0.3575%20129.53%20-0.3575%20126.48%201.0725%20124L70.3625%204C71.0725%202.76%2072.0925%201.76001%2073.2925%201.07001C74.4925%200.380007%2075.8625%200%2077.2925%200H141.952C144.812%200%20147.453%201.53%20148.883%204H148.873ZM365.963%20124L296.672%204C295.962%202.76%20294.943%201.76001%20293.743%201.07001C292.543%200.380007%20291.173%200%20289.743%200H225.083C222.223%200%20219.583%201.53%20218.153%204L183.513%2064L255.103%20188C256.533%20190.47%20259.173%20192%20262.033%20192H326.693C328.122%20192%20329.492%20191.62%20330.693%20190.93C331.893%20190.24%20332.902%20189.24%20333.622%20188L365.953%20132C367.383%20129.53%20367.383%20126.48%20365.953%20124H365.963Z'%20fill='%2362DE61'/%3e%3cpath%20d='M109.623%2064H183.523L148.883%204C147.453%201.53%20144.813%200%20141.953%200H77.2925C75.8625%200%2074.4925%200.380007%2073.2925%201.07001L109.623%2064Z'%20fill='url\(%23paint0_linear_342_139\)'/%3e%3cpath%20d='M109.623%2064L73.2925%201.07001C72.0925%201.76001%2071.0825%202.76%2070.3625%204L1.0725%20124C-0.3575%20126.48%20-0.3575%20129.52%201.0725%20132L33.4026%20188C34.1126%20189.24%2035.1325%20190.24%2036.3325%20190.93L109.613%2064H109.623Z'%20fill='url\(%23paint1_linear_342_139\)'/%3e%3cpath%20d='M183.513%2064H109.613L36.3325%20190.93C37.5325%20191.62%2038.9025%20192%2040.3325%20192H104.993C107.853%20192%20110.492%20190.47%20111.922%20188L183.513%2064Z'%20fill='%2309AF58'/%3e%3cpath%20d='M365.963%20132C366.673%20130.76%20367.033%20129.38%20367.033%20128H294.372L258.042%20190.93C259.242%20191.62%20260.612%20192%20262.042%20192H326.703C329.563%20192%20332.202%20190.47%20333.632%20188L365.963%20132Z'%20fill='%2309AF58'/%3e%3cpath%20d='M225.083%200C223.653%200%20222.283%200.380007%20221.083%201.07001L294.362%20128H367.023C367.023%20126.62%20366.663%20125.24%20365.953%20124L296.672%204C295.242%201.53%20292.603%200%20289.743%200H225.073H225.083Z'%20fill='url\(%23paint2_linear_342_139\)'/%3e%3cpath%20d='M258.033%20190.93L294.362%20128L221.083%201.07001C219.883%201.76001%20218.873%202.76%20218.153%204L183.513%2064L255.103%20188C255.813%20189.24%20256.833%20190.24%20258.033%20190.93Z'%20fill='url\(%23paint3_linear_342_139\)'/%3e%3cdefs%3e%3clinearGradient%20id='paint0_linear_342_139'%20x1='155.803'%20y1='80'%20x2='101.003'%20y2='-14.93'%20gradientUnits='userSpaceOnUse'%3e%3cstop%20stop-
color='%23BFF9B4'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='1'%20stop-
color='%2380EE64'/%3e%3c/linearGradient%3e%3clinearGradient%20id='paint1_linear_342_139'%20x1='8.62251'%20y1='174.93'%20x2='100.072'%20y2='16.54'%20gradientUnits='userSpaceOnUse'%3e%3cstop%20stop-
color='%2380EE64'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='0.18'%20stop-
color='%237BEB63'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='0.36'%20stop-
color='%236FE562'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='0.55'%20stop-
color='%235ADA60'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='0.74'%20stop-
color='%233DCA5D'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='0.93'%20stop-
color='%2318B759'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='1'%20stop-
color='%2309AF58'/%3e%3c/linearGradient%3e%3clinearGradient%20id='paint2_linear_342_139'%20x1='340.243'%20y1='143.46'%20x2='248.793'%20y2='-14.93'%20gradientUnits='userSpaceOnUse'%3e%3cstop%20stop-
color='%23BFF9B4'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='1'%20stop-
color='%2380EE64'/%3e%3c/linearGradient%3e%3clinearGradient%20id='paint3_linear_342_139'%20x1='284.822'%20y1='175.47'%20x2='193.372'%20y2='17.0701'%20gradientUnits='userSpaceOnUse'%3e%3cstop%20stop-
color='%2380EE64'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='0.18'%20stop-
color='%237BEB63'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='0.36'%20stop-
color='%236FE562'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='0.55'%20stop-
color='%235ADA60'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='0.74'%20stop-
color='%233DCA5D'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='0.93'%20stop-
color='%2318B759'/%3e%3cstop%20offset='1'%20stop-
color='%2309AF58'/%3e%3c/linearGradient%3e%3c/defs%3e%3c/svg%3e)](/)

[](https://x.com/modal_labs) [](https://www.linkedin.com/company/modal-labs/)
[](https://modal.com/slack) [](https://github.com/modal-labs)
[](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC477UdoLR2Js3RHhRWSXsQA)

© Modal 2025

Use Cases

[Language Model Inference](/use-cases/language-models)

[Image, Video & 3D](/use-cases/image-video-3d)

[Audio Processing](/use-cases/audio)

[Fine-Tuning](/use-cases/fine-tuning)

[Job Queues & Batch Processing](/use-cases/job-queues)

[Sandboxing Code](/use-cases/sandboxes)

[Computational Biology](/use-cases/comp-bio)

Resources

[Documentation](/docs/guide)

[Pricing](/pricing)

[Slack Community](/slack)

[Articles](/articles)

[GPU Glossary](/gpu-glossary)

[LLM Engine Advisor](/llm-almanac)

[Model Library](/library)

Popular Examples

[Serve LLM APIs with vLLM](/docs/examples/vllm_inference)

[Create custom art of your pet](/docs/examples/dreambooth_app)

[Analyze Parquet files from S3 with DuckDB](/docs/examples/s3_bucket_mount)

[Run hundreds of LoRAs from one app](/docs/examples/cloud_bucket_mount_loras)

[Finetune an LLM to replace your CEO](/docs/examples/llm-finetuning)

Company

[About](/company)

[Blog](/blog)

[Careers](/careers)

[Privacy Policy](/legal/privacy-policy)

[Security & Privacy](/docs/guide/security)

[Terms](/legal/terms)

[](https://x.com/modal_labs) [](https://www.linkedin.com/company/modal-labs/)
[](https://modal.com/slack) [](https://github.com/modal-labs)
[](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC477UdoLR2Js3RHhRWSXsQA)

© Modal 2025
