* * *

Copy page

# Dicts

Modal Dicts provide distributed key-value storage to your Modal Apps.

    import modal

    app = modal.App()
    kv = modal.Dict.from_name("kv", create_if_missing=True)

    @app.local_entrypoint()
    def main(key="cloud", value="dictionary", put=True):
        if put:
            kv[key] = value
        print(f"{key}: {kv[key]}")

Copy

This page is a high-level guide to using Modal Dicts. For reference
documentation on the `modal.Dict` object, see [this
page](/docs/reference/modal.Dict). For reference documentation on the `modal
dict` CLI command, see [this page](/docs/reference/cli/dict).

## Modal Dicts are Python dicts in the cloud

Dicts provide distributed key-value storage to your Modal Apps. Much like a
standard Python dictionary, a Dict lets you store and retrieve values using
keys. However, unlike a regular dictionary, a Dict in Modal is accessible from
anywhere, concurrently and in parallel.

    # create a remote Dict
    dictionary = modal.Dict.from_name("my-dict", create_if_missing=True)

    dictionary["key"] = "value"  # set a value from anywhere
    value = dictionary["key"]    # get a value from anywhere

Copy

Dicts are persisted, which means that the data in the dictionary is stored and
can be retrieved even after the application is redeployed.

## You can access Modal Dicts asynchronously

Modal Dicts live in the cloud, which means reads and writes against them go
over the network. That has some unavoidable latency overhead, relative to just
reading from memory, of a few dozen ms. Reads from Dicts via `["key"]`-style
indexing are synchronous, which means that latency is often directly felt by
the application.

But like all Modal objects, you can also interact with Dicts asynchronously by
putting the `.aio` suffix on methods — in this case, `put` and `get`, which
are synonyms for bracket-based indexing. Just add the `async` keyword to your
`local_entrypoint`s or remote Functions and `await` the method calls.

    import modal

    app = modal.App()
    dictionary = modal.Dict.from_name("async-dict", create_if_missing=True)

    @app.local_entrypoint()
    async def main():
        await dictionary.put.aio("key", "value")  # setting a value asynchronously
        assert await dictionary.get.aio("key")   # getting a value asyncrhonrously

Copy

See the guide to [asynchronous functions](/docs/guide/async) for more
information.

## Modal Dicts are not _exactly_ Python dicts

Python dicts can have keys of any hashable type and values of any type.

You can store Python objects of any serializable type within Dicts as keys or
values.

Objects are serialized using
[`cloudpickle`](https://github.com/cloudpipe/cloudpickle), so precise support
is inherited from that library. `cloudpickle` can serialize a surprising
variety of objects, like `lambda` functions or even Python modules, but it
can’t serialize a few things that don’t really make sense to serialize, like
live system resources (sockets, writable file descriptors).

Note that you will need to have the library defining the type installed in the
environment where you retrieve the object so that it can be deserialized.

    import modal

    app = modal.App()
    dictionary = modal.Dict.from_name("funky-dict", create_if_missing=True)

    @app.function(image=modal.Image.debian_slim().pip_install("numpy"))
    def fill():
        import numpy

        dictionary["numpy"] = numpy
        dictionary["modal"] = modal
        dictionary[dictionary] = dictionary  # don't try this at home!

    @app.local_entrypoint()
    def main():
        fill.remote()
        print(dictionary["modal"])
        print(dictionary[dictionary]["modal"].Dict)
        # print(dictionary["numpy"])  # DeserializationError, if no numpy locally

Copy

Unlike with normal Python dictionaries, updates to mutable value types will
not be reflected in other containers unless the updated object is explicitly
put back into the Dict. As a consequence, patterns like chained updates
(`my_dict["outer_key"]["inner_key"] = value`) cannot be used the same way as
they would with a local dictionary.

Currently, the per-object size limit is 100 MiB and the maximum number of
entries per update is 10,000. It’s recommended to use Dicts for smaller
objects (under 5 MiB). Each object in the Dict will expire after 7 days of
inactivity (no reads or writes).

Dicts also provide a locking primitive. See [this blog post](/blog/cache-dict-
launch) for details.

DictsModal Dicts are Python dicts in the cloudYou can access Modal Dicts
asynchronouslyModal Dicts are not exactly Python dicts

See it in action

[Use Dicts and Queues to coordinate a web
scraper](/docs/examples/dicts_and_queues)

[Store 100k checkboxes in a Dict](/docs/examples/fasthtml_checkboxes)
