* * *

Copy page

# Using OIDC to authenticate with external services

Your Functions in Modal may need to access external resources like S3 buckets.
Traditionally, you would need to store long-lived credentials in Modal Secrets
and reference those Secrets in your function code. With the Modal OIDC
integration, you can instead use automatically-generated identity tokens to
authenticate to external services.

## How it works

[OIDC](https://auth0.com/docs/authenticate/protocols/openid-connect-protocol)
is a standard protocol for authenticating users between systems. In Modal, we
use OIDC to generate short-lived tokens that external services can use to
verify that your function is authenticated.

The OIDC integration has two components: the discovery document and the
generated tokens.

The [OIDC discovery
document](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/v3_0/authentication/openid-
connect-discovery/) describes how our OIDC server is configured. It primarily
includes the supported
[claims](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2017/07/25/oidc-primer-part-1) and
the [keys](https://auth0.com/docs/secure/tokens/json-web-tokens/json-web-key-
sets) we use to sign tokens. Discovery documents are always hosted at `/.well-
known/openid-configuration`, and you can view ours at
<https://oidc.modal.com/.well-known/openid-configuration>.

The generated tokens are [JWTs](https://jwt.io/) signed by Modal using the
keys described in the discovery document. These tokens contain the full
identity of the Function in the `sub` claim, and they use custom claims to
make this information more easily accessible. See our [discovery
document](https://oidc.modal.com/.well-known/openid-configuration) for a full
list of claims.

Generated tokens are injected into your Function’s containers via the
`MODAL_IDENTITY_TOKEN` environment variable. Below is an example of what
claims might be included in a token:

    {
      "sub": "modal:workspace_id:ac-12345abcd:environment_name:modal-examples:app_name:oidc-token-test:function_name:jwt_return_func:container_id:ta-12345abcd",
      "aud": "oidc.modal.com",
      "exp": 1732137751,
      "iat": 1731964951,
      "iss": "https://oidc.modal.com",
      "jti": "31f92dca-e847-4bc9-8d15-9f234567a123",
      "workspace_id": "ac-12345abcd",
      "environment_id": "en-12345abcd",
      "environment_name": "modal-examples",
      "app_id": "ap-12345abcd",
      "app_name": "oidc-token-test",
      "function_id": "fu-12345abcd",
      "function_name": "jwt_return_func",
      "container_id": "ta-12345abcd"
    }

Copy

### Key thumbprints

RSA keys have [thumbprints](https://connect2id.com/products/nimbus-jose-
jwt/examples/jwk-thumbprints). You can use these thumbprints to verify that
the keys in our discovery document are genuine. This protects against
potential Man in the Middle (MitM) attacks, although our required use of HTTPS
mitigates this risk.

If you’d like to have the extra security of verifying the thumbprints, you can
use the following command to print the thumbprints for the keys in our
discovery document:

    $ openssl s_client -connect oidc.modal.com:443 < /dev/null 2>/dev/null | openssl x509 -fingerprint -noout | awk -F= '{print $2}' | tr -d ':'
    F062F2151EDE30D1620B48B7AC91D66047D769D3

Copy

Note that these thumbprints may change over time as we rotate keys. We
recommend periodically checking for and updating your scripts with the new
thumbprints.

### App name format

By default, Modal Apps can be created with arbitrary names. However, when
using OIDC, the App name has a stricter character set. Specifically, it must
be 64 characters or less and can only include alphanumeric characters, dashes,
periods, and underscores. If these constraints are violated, the OIDC token
will not be injected into the container.

Note that these are the same constraints that are applied to [Deployed
Apps](/docs/guide/managing-deployments). This means that if an App is
deployable, it will also be compatible with OIDC.

## Demo usage with AWS

To see how OIDC tokens can be used, we’ll demo a simple Function that lists
objects in an S3 bucket.

### Step 0: Understand your OIDC claims

Before we can configure OIDC policies, we need to know what claims we can
match against. We can run a Function and inspect its claims to find out.

    app = modal.App("oidc-token-test")

    jwt_image = modal.Image.debian_slim().pip_install("pyjwt")

    @app.function(image=jwt_image)
    def jwt_return_func():
        import jwt

        token = os.environ["MODAL_IDENTITY_TOKEN"]
        claims = jwt.decode(token, options={"verify_signature": False})
        print(json.dumps(claims, indent=2))

    @app.local_entrypoint()
    def main():
        jwt_return_func.remote()

Copy

Run the function locally to see its claims:

    $ modal run oidc-token-test.py
    {
      "sub": "modal:workspace_id:ac-12345abcd:environment_name:modal-examples:app_name:oidc-token-test:function_name:jwt_return_func:container_id:ta-12345abcd",
      "aud": "oidc.modal.com",
      "exp": 1732137751,
      "iat": 1731964951,
      "iss": "https://oidc.modal.com",
      "jti": "31f92dca-e847-4bc9-8d15-9f234567a123",
      "workspace_id": "ac-12345abcd",
      "environment_id": "en-12345abcd",
      "environment_name": "modal-examples",
      "app_id": "ap-12345abcd",
      "app_name": "oidc-token-test",
      "function_id": "fu-12345abcd",
      "function_name": "jwt_return_func",
      "container_id": "ta-12345abcd"
    }

Copy

Now we can match off these claims to configure our OIDC policies.

### Step 1: Configure AWS to trust Modal’s OIDC provider

We need to make AWS accept Modal identity tokens. To do this, we need to add
Modal’s OIDC provider as a trusted entity in our AWS account.

    aws iam create-open-id-connect-provider \
        --url https://oidc.modal.com \
        --client-id-list oidc.modal.com \
        # Optionally replace with the thumbprint from the discovery document.
        # Note that this may change over time as we rotate keys, and this argument
        # can be omitted if you'd prefer to rely on the HTTPS verification instead.
        --thumbprint-list "<thumbprint>"

Copy

This will trigger AWS to pull down our [JSON Web Key Set
(JWKS)](https://auth0.com/docs/secure/tokens/json-web-tokens/json-web-key-
sets) and use it to verify the signatures of any tokens signed by Modal.

### Step 2: Create an IAM role that can be assumed by Modal Functions

Let’s create a simple IAM policy that allows listing objects in an S3 bucket.
Take the policy below and replace the bucket name with your own.

    {
      "Version": "2012-10-17",
      "Statement": [
        {
          "Effect": "Allow",
          "Action": ["s3:PutObject", "s3:GetObject", "s3:ListBucket"],
          "Resource": ["arn:aws:s3:::fun-bucket", "arn:aws:s3:::fun-bucket/*"]
        }
      ]
    }

Copy

Now, we can create an IAM role that uses this policy. Visit the IAM console to
create this role. Be sure to replace the account ID and workspace ID
placeholders with your own.

    {
      "Version": "2012-10-17",
      "Statement": [
        {
          "Effect": "Allow",
          "Principal": {
            "Federated": "arn:aws:iam::123456789abcd:oidc-provider/oidc.modal.com"
          },
          "Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
          "Condition": {
            "StringEquals": {
              "oidc.modal.com:aud": "oidc.modal.com"
            },
            "StringLike": {
              "oidc.modal.com:sub": "modal:workspace_id:ac-12345abcd:*"
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    }

Copy

Note how we use `workspace_id` to limit the scope of the role. This means that
the IAM role can only be assumed by Functions in your Workspace. You can
further limit this by specifying an Environment, App, or Function name.

Ideally, we would use the custom claims for role limiting. Unfortunately, AWS
does not support [matching on custom
claims](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_policies_iam-
condition-keys.html#condition-keys-wif), so we use the `sub` claim instead.

### Step 3: Use the OIDC token in your Function

The AWS SDKs have built-in support for OIDC tokens, so you can use them as
follows:

    import boto3

    app = modal.App("oidc-token-test")

    boto3_image = modal.Image.debian_slim().pip_install("boto3")

    # Trade a Modal OIDC token for AWS credentials
    def get_s3_client(role_arn):
        sts_client = boto3.client("sts")

        # Assume role with Web Identity
        credential_response = sts_client.assume_role_with_web_identity(
            RoleArn=role_arn, RoleSessionName="OIDCSession", WebIdentityToken=os.environ["MODAL_IDENTITY_TOKEN"]
        )

        # Extract credentials
        credentials = credential_response["Credentials"]
        return boto3.client(
            "s3",
            aws_access_key_id=credentials["AccessKeyId"],
            aws_secret_access_key=credentials["SecretAccessKey"],
            aws_session_token=credentials["SessionToken"],
        )

    # List the contents of an S3 bucket
    @app.function(image=boto3_image)
    def list_bucket_contents(bucket_name, role_arn):
        s3_client = get_s3_client(role_arn)
        response = s3_client.list_objects_v2(Bucket=bucket_name)
        for obj in response["Contents"]:
            print(f"- {obj['Key']} (Size: {obj['Size']} bytes)")

    @app.local_entrypoint()
    def main():
        # Replace with the role ARN and bucket name from step 2
        list_bucket_contents.remote("fun-bucket", "arn:aws:iam::123456789abcd:role/oidc_test_role")

Copy

Run the function locally to see the contents of the bucket:

    $ modal run oidc-token-test.py
    - test-file.txt (Size: 10 bytes)

Copy

## Next steps

The OIDC integration can be used for much more than just AWS. With this same
pattern, you can configure automatic access to
[Vault](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/auth/jwt),
[GCP](https://cloud.google.com/identity-platform/docs/web/oidc),
[Azure](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-
platform/v2-protocols-oidc), and more.

Using OIDC to authenticate with external servicesHow it worksKey
thumbprintsApp name formatDemo usage with AWSStep 0: Understand your OIDC
claimsStep 1: Configure AWS to trust Modal’s OIDC providerStep 2: Create an
IAM role that can be assumed by Modal FunctionsStep 3: Use the OIDC token in
your FunctionNext steps
