* * *

Copy page

# Proxies (beta)

You can securely connect with resources in your private network using a Modal
Proxy. Proxies are a secure tunnel between Apps and exit nodes with static
IPs. You can allow-list those static IPs in your network firewall, making sure
that only traffic originating from these IP addresses is allowed into your
network.

Proxies are unique and not shared between workspaces. All traffic between your
Apps and the Proxy server is encrypted using
[Wireguard](https://www.wireguard.com/).

Modal Proxies are built on top of [vprox](https://github.com/modal-
labs/vprox), a Modal open-source project used to create highly available proxy
servers using Wireguard.

_Modal Proxies are in beta. Please let us know if you run into issues._

## Creating a Proxy

Proxies are available for [Team Plan](/pricing) or [Enterprise](/pricing)
users.

You can create Proxies in your workspace [Settings](/settings) page. Team Plan
users can create one Proxy and Enterprise users three Proxies. Each Proxy can
have a maximum of five static IP addresses.

Please reach out to [support@modal.com](mailto:support@modal.com) if you need
greater limits.

## Using a Proxy

After a Proxy is online, add it to a Modal Function with the argument
`proxy=Proxy.from_name("<your-proxy>")`. For example:

    import modal
    import subprocess

    app = modal.App(image=modal.Image.debian_slim().apt_install("curl"))

    @app.function(proxy=modal.Proxy.from_name("<your-proxy>"))
    def my_ip():
        subprocess.run(["curl", "-s", "ifconfig.me"])

    @app.local_entrypoint()
    def main():
        my_ip.remote()

Copy

All network traffic from your Function will now use the Proxy as a tunnel.

The program above will always print the same IP address independent of where
it runs in Modal’s infrastructure. If that same program were to run without a
Proxy, it would print a different IP address depending on where it runs.

## Proxy performance

All traffic that goes through a Proxy is encrypted by Wireguard. This adds
latency to your Function’s networking. If are experiencing networking issues
with Proxies related to performance, first add more IP addresses to your Proxy
(see Adding more IP addresses a Proxy).

## Adding more IP addresses to a Proxy

Proxies support up to five static IP addresses. Adding IP addresses improves
throughput linearly.

You can add an IP address to your workspace in [Settings](/settings) >
Proxies. Select the desired Proxy and add a new IP.

If a Proxy has multiple IPs, Modal will randomly pick one when running your
Function.

## Proxies and Sandboxes

Proxies can also be used with [Sandboxes](/docs/guide/sandbox). For example:

    import modal

    app = modal.App.lookup("sandbox-proxy", create_if_missing=True)
    sb = modal.Sandbox.create(
        app=app,
        image=modal.Image.debian_slim().apt_install("curl"),
        proxy=modal.Proxy.from_name("<your-proxy>"))

    process = sb.exec("curl", "-s", "https://ifconfig.me")
    stdout = process.stdout.read()
    print(stdout)

    sb.terminate()

Copy

Similarly to our Function implementation, this Sandbox program will always
print the same IP address.

Proxies (beta)Creating a ProxyUsing a ProxyProxy performanceAdding more IP
addresses to a ProxyProxies and Sandboxes
