* * *

Copy page

# Queues

Modal Queues provide distributed FIFO queues to your Modal Apps.

    import modal

    app = modal.App()
    queue = modal.Queue.from_name("simple-queue", create_if_missing=True)

    def producer(x):
        queue.put(x)  # adding a value

    @app.function()
    def consumer():
        return queue.get()  # retrieving a value

    @app.local_entrypoint()
    def main(x="some object"):
        # produce and consume tasks from local or remote code
        producer(x)
        print(consumer.remote())

Copy

This page is a high-level guide to using Modal Queues. For reference
documentation on the `modal.Queue` object, see [this
page](/docs/reference/modal.Queue). For reference documentation on the `modal
queue` CLI command, see [this page](/docs/reference/cli/queue).

## Modal Queues are Python queues in the cloud

Like [Python `Queue`s](https://docs.python.org/3/library/queue.html), Modal
Queues are multi-producer, multi-consumer first-in-first-out (FIFO) queues.

Queues are particularly useful when you want to handle tasks or process data
asynchronously, or when you need to pass messages between different components
of your distributed system.

Queues are cleared 24 hours after the last `put` operation and are backed by a
replicated in-memory database, so persistence is likely, but not guaranteed.
As such, `Queue`s are best used for communication between active functions and
not relied on for persistent storage.

[Please get in touch](mailto:support@modal.com) if you need durability for
Queue objects.

## Queues are partitioned by key

Queues are split into separate FIFO partitions via a string key. By default,
one partition (corresponding to an empty key) is used.

A single `Queue` can contain up to 100,000 partitions, each with up to 5,000
items. Each item can be up to 1 MiB. These limits also apply to the default
partition.

Each partition has an independent TTL, by default 24 hours. Lower TTLs can be
specified by the `partition_ttl` argument in the `put` or `put_many` methods.

    import modal

    app = modal.App()
    my_queue = modal.Queue.from_name("partitioned-queue", create_if_missing=True)

    @app.local_entrypoint()
    def main():
        # clear all elements, start from a clean slate
        my_queue.clear()

        my_queue.put("some value")  # first in
        my_queue.put(123)

        assert my_queue.get() == "some value"  # first out
        assert my_queue.get() == 123

        my_queue.put(0)
        my_queue.put(1, partition="foo")
        my_queue.put(2, partition="bar")

        # Default and "foo" partition are ignored by the get operation.
        assert my_queue.get(partition="bar") == 2

        # Set custom 10s expiration time on "foo" partition.
        my_queue.put(3, partition="foo", partition_ttl=10)

        # (beta feature) Iterate through items in place (read immutably)
        my_queue.put(1)
        assert [v for v in my_queue.iterate()] == [0, 1]

Copy

## You can access Modal Queues synchronously or asynchronously, blocking or
non-blocking

Queues are synchronous and blocking by default. Consumers will block and wait
on an empty Queue and producers will block and wait on a full Queue, both with
an `Optional`, configurable `timeout`. If the `timeout` is `None`, they will
wait indefinitely. If a `timeout` is provided, `get` methods will raise
[`queue.Empty`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/queue.html#queue.Empty)
exceptions and `put` methods will raise
[`queue.Full`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/queue.html#queue.Full)
exceptions, both from the Python standard library.

The `get` and `put` methods can be made non-blocking by setting the `block`
argument to `False`. They raise `queue` exceptions without waiting on the
`timeout`.

Queues are stored in the cloud, so all interactions require communication over
the network. This adds some extra latency to calls, apart from the `timeout`,
on the order of tens of milliseconds. To avoid this latency impacting
application latency, you can asynchronously interact with Queues by adding the
`.aio` function suffix to access methods.

    @app.local_entrypoint()
    async def main(value=None):
        await my_queue.put.aio(value or 200)
        assert await my_queue.get.aio() == value

Copy

See the guide to [asynchronous functions](/docs/guide/async) for more
information.

## Modal Queues are not _exactly_ Python Queues

Python Queues can have values of any type.

Modal Queues can store Python objects of any serializable type.

Objects are serialized using
[`cloudpickle`](https://github.com/cloudpipe/cloudpickle), so precise support
is inherited from that library. `cloudpickle` can serialize a surprising
variety of objects, like `lambda` functions or even Python modules, but it
can’t serialize a few things that don’t really make sense to serialize, like
live system resources (sockets, writable file descriptors).

Note that you will need to have the library defining the type installed in the
environment where you retrieve the object so that it can be deserialized.

    import modal

    app = modal.App()
    queue = modal.Queue.from_name("funky-queue", create_if_missing=True)
    queue.clear()  # start from a clean slate

    @app.function(image=modal.Image.debian_slim().pip_install("numpy"))
    def fill():
        import numpy

        queue.put(modal)
        queue.put(queue)  # don't try this at home!
        queue.put(numpy)

    @app.local_entrypoint()
    def main():
        fill.remote()
        print(queue.get().Queue)
        print(queue.get())
        # print(queue.get())  # DeserializationError, if no torch locally

Copy

QueuesModal Queues are Python queues in the cloudQueues are partitioned by
keyYou can access Modal Queues synchronously or asynchronously, blocking or
non-blockingModal Queues are not exactly Python Queues

See it in action

[Use Dicts and Queues to coordinate a web
scraper](/docs/examples/dicts_and_queues)
