* * *

Copy page

# Reserving CPU and memory

Each Modal container has a default reservation of 0.125 CPU cores and 128 MiB
of memory. Containers can exceed this minimum if the worker has available CPU
or memory. You can also guarantee access to more resources by requesting a
higher reservation.

## CPU cores

If you have code that must run on a larger number of cores, you can request
that using the `cpu` argument. This allows you to specify a floating-point
number of CPU cores:

    import modal

    app = modal.App()

    @app.function(cpu=8.0)
    def my_function():
        # code here will have access to at least 8.0 cores
        ...

Copy

## Memory

If you have code that needs more guaranteed memory, you can request it using
the `memory` argument. This expects an integer number of megabytes:

    import modal

    app = modal.App()

    @app.function(memory=32768)
    def my_function():
        # code here will have access to at least 32 GiB of RAM
        ...

Copy

## How much can I request?

For both CPU and memory, a maximum is enforced at function creation time to
ensure your application can be scheduled for execution. Requests exceeding the
maximum will be rejected with an
[`InvalidError`](/docs/reference/modal.exception#modalexceptioninvaliderror).

As the platform grows, we plan to support larger CPU and memory reservations.

## Billing

For CPU and memory, you’ll be charged based on whichever is higher: your
reservation or actual usage.

Disk requests are billed by increasing the memory request at a 20:1 ratio. For
example, requesting 500 GiB of disk will increase the memory request to 25
GiB, if it is not already set higher.

## Resource limits

### CPU limits

Modal containers have a default soft CPU limit that is set at 16 physical
cores above the CPU request. Given that the default CPU request is 0.125 cores
the default soft CPU limit is 16.125 cores. Above this limit the host will
begin to throttle the CPU usage of the container.

You can alternatively set the CPU limit explicitly.

    cpu_request = 1.0
    cpu_limit = 4.0
    @app.function(cpu=(cpu_request, cpu_limit))
    def f():
        ...

Copy

### Memory limits

Modal containers can have a hard memory limit which will ‘Out of Memory’ (OOM)
kill containers which attempt to exceed the limit. This functionality is
useful when a container has a serious memory leak. You can set the limit and
have the container killed to avoid paying for the leaked GBs of memory.

    mem_request = 1024
    mem_limit = 2048
    @app.function(
        memory=(mem_request, mem_limit),
    )
    def f():
        ...

Copy

Specify this limit using the [`memory`
parameter](/docs/reference/modal.App#function) on Modal Functions.

### Disk limits

Running Modal containers have access to many GBs of SSD disk, but the amount
of writes is limited by:

  1. The size of the underlying worker’s SSD disk capacity
  2. A per-container disk quota that is set in the 100s of GBs.

Hitting either limit will cause the container’s disk writes to be rejected,
which typically manifests as an `OSError`.

Increased disk sizes can be requested with the [`ephemeral_disk`
parameter](/docs/reference/modal.App#function). The maximum disk size is 3.0
TiB (3,145,728 MiB). Larger disks are intended to be used for [dataset
processing](/docs/guide/dataset-ingestion).

Reserving CPU and memoryCPU coresMemoryHow much can I request?BillingResource
limitsCPU limitsMemory limitsDisk limits
