* * *

Copy page

# Secrets

Securely provide credentials and other sensitive information to your Modal
Functions with Secrets.

You can create and edit Secrets via the [dashboard](/secrets), the command
line interface ([`modal secret`](/docs/reference/cli/secret)), and
programmatically from Python code
([`modal.Secret`](/docs/reference/modal.Secret)).

To inject Secrets into the container running your Function, add the
`secrets=[...]` argument to your `app.function` or `app.cls` decoration.

## Deploy Secrets from the Modal Dashboard

The most common way to create a Modal Secret is to use the [Secrets panel of
the Modal dashboard](/secrets), which also shows any existing Secrets.

When you create a new Secret, youâ€™ll be prompted with a number of templates to
help you get started. These templates demonstrate standard formats for
credentials for everything from Postgres and MongoDB to Weights & Biases and
Hugging Face.

## Use Secrets in your Modal Apps

You can then use your Secret by constructing it `from_name` when defining a
Modal App and then accessing its contents as environment variables. For
example, if you have a Secret called `secret-keys` containing the key
`MY_PASSWORD`:

    @app.function(secrets=[modal.Secret.from_name("secret-keys")])
    def some_function():
        import os

        secret_key = os.environ["MY_PASSWORD"]
        ...

Copy

Each Secret can contain multiple keys and values but you can also inject
multiple Secrets, allowing you to separate Secrets into smaller reusable
units:

    @app.function(secrets=[
        modal.Secret.from_name("my-secret-name"),
        modal.Secret.from_name("other-secret"),
    ])
    def other_function():
        ...

Copy

The Secrets are applied in order, so key-values from later `modal.Secret`
objects in the list will overwrite earlier key-values in the case of a clash.
For example, if both `modal.Secret` objects above contained the key `FOO`,
then the value from `"other-secret"` would always be present in
`os.environ["FOO"]`.

## Create Secrets programmatically

In addition to defining Secrets on the web dashboard, you can programmatically
create a Secret directly in your script and send it along to your Function
using `Secret.from_dict(...)`. This can be useful if you want to send Secrets
from your local development machine to the remote Modal App.

    import os

    if modal.is_local():
        local_secret = modal.Secret.from_dict({"FOO": os.environ["LOCAL_FOO"]})
    else:
        local_secret = modal.Secret.from_dict({})

    @app.function(secrets=[local_secret])
    def some_function():
        import os

        print(os.environ["FOO"])

Copy

If you have [`python-dotenv`](https://pypi.org/project/python-dotenv/)
installed, you can also use `Secret.from_dotenv()` to create a Secret from the
variables in a `.env` file

    @app.function(secrets=[modal.Secret.from_dotenv()])
    def some_other_function():
        print(os.environ["USERNAME"])

Copy

## Interact with Secrets from the command line

You can create, list, and delete your Modal Secrets with the `modal secret`
command line interface.

View your Secrets and their timestamps with

    modal secret list

Copy

Create a new Secret by passing `{KEY}={VALUE}` pairs to `modal secret create`:

    modal secret create database-secret PGHOST=uri PGPORT=5432 PGUSER=admin PGPASSWORD=hunter2

Copy

or using environment variables (assuming below that the `PGPASSWORD`
environment variable is set e.g. by your CI system):

    modal secret create database-secret PGHOST=uri PGPORT=5432 PGUSER=admin PGPASSWORD="$PGPASSWORD"

Copy

Remove Secrets by passing their name to `modal secret delete`:

    modal secret delete database-secret

Copy

SecretsDeploy Secrets from the Modal DashboardUse Secrets in your Modal
AppsCreate Secrets programmaticallyInteract with Secrets from the command line

See it in action

[OpenAI Secret for LangChain RAG](/docs/examples/potus_speech_qanda)

[Write to Google Sheets](/docs/examples/db_to_sheet)
