* * *

Copy page

# Security and privacy at Modal

The document outlines Modal’s security and privacy commitments.

## Application security (AppSec)

AppSec is the practice of building software that is secure by design, secured
during development, secured with testing and review, and deployed securely.

  * We build our software using memory-safe programming languages, including Rust (for our worker runtime and storage infrastructure) and Python (for our API servers and Modal client).
  * Software dependencies are audited by Github’s Dependabot.
  * We make decisions that minimize our attack surface. Most interactions with Modal are well-described in a gRPC API, and occur through [`modal`](https://pypi.org/project/modal), our open-source command-line tool and Python client library.
  * We have automated synthetic monitoring test applications that continuously check for network and application isolation within our runtime.
  * We use HTTPS for secure connections. Modal forces HTTPS for all services using TLS (SSL), including our public website and the Dashboard to ensure secure connections. Modal’s [client library](https://pypi.org/project/modal) connects to Modal’s servers over TLS and verify TLS certificates on each connection.
  * All user data is encrypted in transit and at rest.
  * All public Modal APIs use [TLS 1.3](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8446), the latest and safest version of the TLS protocol.
  * Internal code reviews are performed using a modern, PR-based development workflow (Github), and engage external penetration testing firms to assess our software security.

## Corporate security (CorpSec)

CorpSec is the practice of making sure Modal employees have secure access to
Modal company infrastructure, and also that exposed channels to Modal are
secured. CorpSec controls are the primary concern of standards such as SOC2.

  * Access to our services and applications is gated on a SSO Identity Provider (IdP).
  * We mandate phishing-resistant multi-factor authentication (MFA) in all enrolled IdP accounts.
  * We regularly audit access to internal systems.
  * Employee laptops are protected by full disk encryption using FileVault2, and managed by Secureframe MDM.

## Network and infrastructure security (InfraSec)

InfraSec is the practice of ensuring a hardened, minimal attack surface for
components we deploy on our network.

  * Modal uses logging and metrics observability providers, including Datadog and Sentry.io.
  * Compute jobs at Modal are containerized and virtualized using [gVisor](https://github.com/google/gvisor), the sandboxing technology developed at Google and used in their _Google Cloud Run_ and _Google Kubernetes Engine_ cloud services.
  * We conduct annual business continuity and security incident exercises.

## Vulnerability remediation

Security vulnerabilities directly affecting Modal’s systems and services will
be patched or otherwise remediated within a timeframe appropriate for the
severity of the vulnerability, subject to the public availability of a patch
or other remediation mechanisms.

If there is a CVSS severity rating accompanying a vulnerability disclosure, we
rely on that as a starting point, but may upgrade or downgrade the severity
using our best judgement.

### Severity timeframes

  * **Critical:** 24 hours
  * **High:** 1 week
  * **Medium:** 1 month
  * **Low:** 3 months
  * **Informational:** 3 months or longer

## Shared responsibility model

Modal prioritizes the integrity, security, and availability of customer data.
Under our shared responsibility model, customers also have certain
responsibilities regarding data backup, recovery, and availability.

  1. **Data backup** : Customers are responsible for maintaining backups of their data. Performing daily backups is recommended. Customers must routinely verify the integrity of their backups.
  2. **Data recovery** : Customers should maintain a comprehensive data recovery plan that includes detailed procedures for data restoration in the event of data loss, corruption, or system failure. Customers must routinely test their recovery process.
  3. **Availability** : While Modal is committed to high service availability, customers must implement contingency measures to maintain business continuity during service interruptions. Customers are also responsible for the reliability of their own IT infrastructure.
  4. **Security measures** : Customers must implement appropriate security measures, such as encryption and access controls, to protect their data throughout the backup, storage, and recovery processes. These processes must comply with all relevant laws and regulations.

## SOC 2

We have successfully completed a [System and Organization Controls (SOC) 2
Type 2 audit](/blog/soc2type2). Go to our [Security
Portal](https://trust.modal.com) to request access to the report.

## HIPAA

HIPAA, which stands for the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
Act, establishes a set of standards that protect health information, including
individuals’ medical records and other individually identifiable health
information. HIPAA guidelines apply to both covered entities and business
associates—of which Modal is the latter if you are processing PHI on Modal.

Modal’s services can be used in a HIPAA compliant manner. It is important to
note that unlike other security standards, there is no officially recognized
certification process for HIPAA compliance. Instead, we demonstrate our
compliance with regulations such as HIPAA via the practices outlined in this
doc, our technical and operational security measures, and through official
audits for standards compliance such as SOC 2 certification.

To use Modal services for HIPAA-compliant workloads, a Business Associate
Agreement (BAA) should be established with us prior to submission of any PHI.
This is available on our Enterprise plan. Contact us at
[security@modal.com](mailto:security@modal.com) to get started. At the moment,
[Volumes](https://modal.com/docs/guide/volumes),
[Images](https://modal.com/docs/guide/images) (persistent storage), [memory
snapshots](https://modal.com/docs/guide/memory-snapshot), and user code are
out of scope of the commitments within our BAA, so PHI should not be used in
those areas of the product.

## PCI

_Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard_ (PCI) is a standard that
defines the security and privacy requirements for payment card processing.

Modal uses [Stripe](https://stripe.com) to securely process transactions and
trusts their commitment to best-in-class security. We do not store personal
credit card information for any of our customers. Stripe is certified as “PCI
Service Provider Level 1”, which is the highest level of certification in the
payments industry.

## Bug bounty program

Keeping user data secure is a top priority at Modal. We welcome contributions
from the security community to identify vulnerabilities in our product and
disclose them to us in a responsible manner. We offer rewards ranging from
$100 to $1000+ depending on the severity of the issue discovered. To
participate, please send a report of the vulnerability to
[security@modal.com](mailto:security@modal.com).

## Data privacy

Modal will never access or use:

  * your source code.
  * the inputs (function arguments) or outputs (function return values) to your Modal Functions.
  * any data you store in Modal, such as in Images or Volumes.

Inputs (function arguments) and outputs (function return values) are deleted
from our system after a max TTL of 7 days.

App logs and metadata are stored on Modal. Modal will not access this data
unless permission is granted by the user to help with troubleshooting.

## Questions?

[Email us!](mailto:security@modal.com)

Security and privacy at ModalApplication security (AppSec)Corporate security
(CorpSec)Network and infrastructure security (InfraSec)Vulnerability
remediationSeverity timeframesShared responsibility modelSOC 2HIPAAPCIBug
bounty programData privacyQuestions?
