* * *

Copy page

# Request timeouts

Web endpoint (a.k.a. webhook) requests should complete quickly, ideally within
a few seconds. All web endpoint function types ([`web_endpoint`, `asgi_app`,
`wsgi_app`](/docs/reference/modal.web_endpoint)) have a maximum HTTP request
timeout of 150 seconds enforced. However, the underlying Modal function can
have a longer [timeout](/docs/guide/timeouts).

In case the function takes more than 150 seconds to complete, a HTTP status
303 redirect response is returned pointing at the original URL with a special
query parameter linking it that request. This is the _result URL_ for your
function. Most web browsers allow for up to 20 such redirects, effectively
allowing up to 50 minutes (20 * 150 s) for web endpoints before the request
times out.

(**Note:** This does not work with requests that require
[CORS](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS), since the
response will not have been returned from your code in time for the server to
populate CORS headers.)

Some libraries and tools might require you to add a flag or option in order to
follow redirects automatically, e.g. `curl -L ...` or `http --follow ...`.

The _result URL_ can be reloaded without triggering a new request. It will
block until the request completes.

(**Note:** As of March 2025, the Python standard library’s `urllib` module has
the maximum number of redirects to any single URL set to 4 by default
([source](https://github.com/python/cpython/blob/main/Lib/urllib/request.py)),
which would limit the total timeout to 12.5 minutes (5 * 150 s = 750 s) unless
this setting is overridden.)

## Polling solutions

Sometimes it can be useful to be able to poll for results rather than wait for
a long running HTTP request. The easiest way to do this is to have your web
endpoint spawn a `modal.Function` call and return the function call id that
another endpoint can use to poll the submitted function’s status. Here is an
example:

    import fastapi

    import modal

    image = modal.Image.debian_slim().pip_install("fastapi[standard]")
    app = modal.App(image=image)

    web_app = fastapi.FastAPI()

    @app.function()
    @modal.asgi_app()
    def fastapi_app():
        return web_app

    @app.function()
    def slow_operation():
        ...

    @web_app.post("/accept")
    async def accept_job(request: fastapi.Request):
        call = slow_operation.spawn()
        return {"call_id": call.object_id}

    @web_app.get("/result/{call_id}")
    async def poll_results(call_id: str):
        function_call = modal.FunctionCall.from_id(call_id)
        try:
            return function_call.get(timeout=0)
        except TimeoutError:
            http_accepted_code = 202
            return fastapi.responses.JSONResponse({}, status_code=http_accepted_code)

Copy

[_Document OCR Web App_](/docs/examples/doc_ocr_webapp) is an example that
uses this pattern.

Request timeoutsPolling solutions
